<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658313</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for preparing high-drug-content mixtures suitable for uniform distribution in feeds
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23K116	A23K100	A23K116	A23K100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23K	A23K	A23K	A23K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23K1	A23K1	A23K1	A23K1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Method for the preparation of premixes for zootechnic and veterinary use, 
suitable for uniform distribution in feeds, consisting in coating the 

granule cores made of feed-grade organic material with a layer made of 
water-soluble materials, with an active ingredient being incorporated 

therein or firmly fixed thereto, the formation of said layer being 
obtained by mixing the ingredients fed in an appropriate order, in a 

mixer for powders, in the presence of an antitacking agent. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DOX AL ITALIA SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DOX-AL ITALIA S.P.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRABITZ ERNST BERNHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRABITZ, ERNST BERNHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
It is an object of the present invention to prepare mixtures containing
active ingredients in high amounts (premixes for zootechnic and
veterinary use), which may be easily and safely mixed with feeds to
obtain, as end product, a feed containing the active ingredient in a
predetermined exact amount, distributed in a perfectly uniform way.As known, the preparation of feeds containing active ingredients in
rigorously dosed amounts and at very low concentrations raises
considerable difficulties and inconveniences. A uniform distribution of
small amounts of active ingredient in a large mass of feed, mostly in the
form of granular powder consisting of various components of very
different particle sizes, e.g. meals, flours, milled products, can be
hardly obtained because of the difference in particle size, specific
weight, hydrophilic and lipophilic characteristics between feed and
active ingredient.The same inconveniences also arise in the preparation of high-drug-content
premixes.In some cases, the active ingredient cannot withstand a prolonged mixing,
which inevitably causes heating of the product mass.To overcome said inconveniences and guarantee a predetermined active
ingredient content, the procedures of the prior art envisage an active
ingredient overdosing. However, said method cannot be applied to
substances with very low tolerance limits, which may be seriously harmful
to livestock if taken in excess. According to other procedures of the prior art, the active ingredient is
"microencapsulated", i.e. produced in the form of single granules coated
with a layer making said granules free-flowing, protecting the active
ingredient from external agents, and preventing the product dustiness.Procedures of this type are described e.g. in British patent No.
2,016,043 and in French patent No. 2,447,748. However, should the active
ingredient be present in the finished product in very small and strictly
controlled amounts, the aforesaid procedures will not give satisfactory
results in terms of active ingredient uniform distribution in the end
product and absence of separation in phases during handling.EP-A-0363733 describes a method for preparing coated granules containing
an active ingredient, comprising applying said active ingredient to a
support, optionally pretreated with Ca or Mg salts of fatty acids
mixtures and with oils, optionally admixing the supported active
ingredient with surfactant agents, then coating with polymers.According to the working examples, the resulting coated granules are
finally dried
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for preparing a premix for zootechnic and veterinary use
containing at least one active ingredient, suitable for uniform

distribution in animal feeds, said method comprising coating granules
cores of a feed-grade organic or inorganic material with a layer of

water-soluble coating material by mixing the ingredients of said
premix in a mixer for powder, in the presence of an antitacking agent,

characterized in that the coating layer is obtained applying to a core
material a water-soluble coating material in aqueous solution, then

promoting solidification or crystallization of the aqueous solution of
coating material by adding a dehydrating agent, so that no additional

drying stage by means of heat supplied from the outside is required.
The method according to claim 1, wherein the dehydrating agent is
selected out of anhydrous salts, silica, water-miscible susbtances

having little or no solvent power for the crystallizable material, and
substances which give a solid coating material by chemical reaction.
The method according to claim 1, wherein the anhydrous salts are
selected among calcium sulphate hemihydrate, anhydrous sodium acetate,

and anhydrous water-soluble silicates; the water-miscible susbtances
having little or no solvent power for the crystallizable material are

selected among polyethylene glycol with average molecular weight of
6000 and polyoxyethylenated glycerol ricinoleate; the substances which

give a solid coating material by chemical reaction are selected among
calcium oxide, magnesium oxide, phosphoric acid and acid phosphates.
The method according to claim 1, wherein the coating material is 
selected among crystallizable or solidifiable material and powders

capable of adhering to the core.
The method according to claim 1, wherein the coating material is
selected among:


a) saccharides; b) starch derivatives; c) proteic substances; d)
cellulose derivatives; e) guar flour, arabic gum; f) water-soluble

polymers; g) hydrogenated fats combined with surfactants; h) water-soluble
silicates; and i) Ca, Mg, or Zn oxides or hydroxides.
The method according to claim 1, wherein the hardness of th coating
layer is adjusted by addition of softeners or plasticizers.
The method according to claim 1, wherein the feed-grade material of
the granules cores is selected among calcium phosphate, calcium

carbonate, oligoelements salts, chelated oligoelements salts,
granulated maize, soy-bean flour, bran, cereal-flakes, corncob meal,

by-products of food industry and any mixture thereof.
The method according to claim 1, wherein the granule core has a
size of between 100 and 1000 microns.
The method according to claim 1, wherein the antitacking agent is a
w/o (water in oil) type emulsion of an oily substance selected among

silicone oil, edible oil, paraffin oil, ethyl oleate, higher alcohols
in the liquid state.
The method according to anyone of claims from 1 to 9, which
further comprises a preliminary treatment, consisting in spraying with

a liquid acid said core material kept in motion in the mixer.
The method according to claim 1, wherein the formation of the
coating layer is obtained by means of a saccaride in the form of a

highly concentrated aqueous solution, which is caused to crystallize 
by addition, during mixing, of a dehydrating agent selected out of

anydrous salts or water miscible substances with no solvent power for
the crystallizable material.
The method according to claim 11, wherein the dehydrating agent is
selected out of i) anhydrous salts selected among sodium acetate,

anhydrous calcium sulphate hemihydrate, and ii) anhydrous silicates,
polyetylene glycol with average molecular weight of 6000, and

polyoxyethylenated glycerol ricinoleate.
The metohd according to claim 12, wherein the whole water amount
present in the saccharide solution is absorbed by the dehydrating

agent present in the mixture, a subsequent drying of the mixture being
thus avoided.
A premix obtainable by means of the method according to any one of
claims 1 to 13.
A premix according to claim 14, wherein the active ingredient is
incorporated in said coating layer or firmly fixed thereto.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
