<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628232</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FRACTAL CODING OF DATA
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G10L1900	H04N141	H04N726	H03M730	H04N726	G06T900	G06T900	H04N141	G10L1900	H03M730	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G10L	H04N	H04N	H03M	H04N	G06T	G06T	H04N	G10L	H03M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G10L19	H04N1	H04N7	H03M7	H04N7	G06T9	G06T9	H04N1	G10L19	H03M7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BTG INT LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BTG INTERNATIONAL LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUDBRIDGE FRANK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MONRO DONALD MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUDBRIDGE, FRANK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MONRO, DONALD MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to methods of fractal coding of data,
such as image data or data representative of speech, and to
apparatus for carrying out such methods.It should be understood that the term "data" is used in this
specification in a non-limiting sense and is intended to include
not only data in the form of binary-coded electrical signals but
also any other forms of data or information. Such other forms of
data or information may take a physical form other than an
electrical signal and may represent any required phenomenon, such
as an image, speech, numbers or shape.Conventionally an image displayed on a computer screen is
stored or transmitted in the form of digital data characterising
the position and tone or colour of each pixel of the screen
display. A substantial storage capacity is required for such
data. If the image is to be displayed at a remote location, the
data is transmitted utilizing a suitable carrier and this requires
a substantial bandwidth to accommodate the data unless a long time
is allowed for transmission. In some situations, where the
displayed image comprises a regular geometrical shape, the only
data which needs to be stored is data characterising an equation
defining the geometrical shape and its position in the display.
In this case very much less storage capacity is required for the
data. Clearly the latter technique can be used for storage or
transmission of an image only when the image can be suitably
characterised by a mathematical equation.It is already known for more complex images to be coded by
the so-called Adaptive Discrete Cosine Transform (ADCT) technique,
and this technique is assured of adoption as the JPEG standard for
still image compression (G.K. Wallace, "The JPEG Still Picture
Compression Standard", Comm. ACM, Vol. 34, No. 4, pp 30-44, 1991). However there has also been continuing interest shown in the
characterisation of complex images by fractal coding (M.F.
Barnsley and S. Demko, "Iterated Function Systems and the Global
Construction of Fractals", Proc. Roy. Soc. London, Vol. A399, pp
243-275, 1985).A fractal is a structure having a high degree of
self-similarity in that it is composed of a basic motif which is
repeated throughout the structure and which may be considered as
being formed by a series of transformations, which may include
translation, rotation, reflection, size reduction or skewing,
applied to the motif in order to generate successive parts of the
structure. In fractal coding of an image, the image is coded by
means of a fractal
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of fractal coding of data, the method comprising:

(a) dividing the data into domains;
(b) manipulating the data for the domains to determine a set of
transformations relating the domains to the data so as to minimise

error between the data and an approximation to the data obtained by
application of the transformations; and
(c) providing an expression including quantized fractal transformation
coefficients which characterises the transformations;

   characterised in that the manipulating of the data includes resolving the
data for the domains into equations, and minimising the error by solving

the equations.
A method according to Claim 1 in which the data is representative of
information on a physical form.
A method according to Claim 1 in which the data relates to at least one of
an image, speech, handwriting and information representative of the shape of an

object.
A method according to Claim 1 in which a transformation is
characterised in at least two parts, at least one part indicating a domain and at

least another functional part indicating a value for a measure associated with a
specific domain or aspect thereof. 
A method according to Claim 1 in which the set of transformations
corresponds to any solution which minimises an error d(f,g) between one or

more functions g, whether continuous or discrete, and an approximation f to the
function or functions expressed as an iterated Function System (IFS).
A method according to Claim 5 in which the IFS is divided into a domain
part and one or more functional parts.
A method according to Claim 1 in which the transformations are
determined analytically.
A method according to Claim 7 in which the transformation coefficients
are found from a set of linear equations.
A method according to Claim 7 in which the transformation coefficients
are derived in linear time.
A method according to Claim 7 in which the transformation coefficients
are the result of a linear relationship between coding complexity on an image

size.
A method according to Claim 1 in which the series of quantized fractal
coefficients provided is held in a store or transmitted over a transmission path.
A method according to Claim 11 in which the stored or transmitted
coefficients are retrieved or received, and a representation of the data 

reproduced therefrom.
A method according to Claim 1 in which the set of transformations is
determined by at least squares approximation to the data.
A method according to Claim 1 for the fractal block coding of images, in
which the image is divided into image blocks and data representative of each

image block is divided into a plurality of domains which are related to the
image block by a set of affine transformations.
A method according to Claim 14 in which each image block is generally
rectangular.
A method according to Claim 15 in which the sizes and shapes of the
domains are variable relative to one another.
A method according to Claim 14 in which each image block is divided
into a plurality of equal non-overlapping domains for the purpose of image

encoding.
A method according to Claim 14 in which the domains are of different
sizes so as to optimise the distribution of error between the different domains of

an image block or reduce the total error of the image block.
A method according to Claim 14 for the coding of grey-scale images in
which the block data includes grey-scale data as well as positional data and 

wherein the set of transformations is determined both on the basis of the
positional data and on the basis of the grey-scale data.
A method according to Claim 14 for the coding of coloured images in
which the block data includes colour data as well as positional data wherein the

set of transformations is determined both on the basis of positional data and on
the basis ofthe colour data.
A method according to Claim 1 including the further steps of:

(d) storing or transmitting the expression as fractal-encoded data; and
(e) decoding the fractal encoded data by:

(i) deriving the fixed points of all the transformations needed for

the fractal;
(ii) forming a rounded approximation pixel for each said point;
and
(iii) plotting the rounded approximation pixels as a finite
approximation to the attractor of the fractal.
A method according to any one of the preceding claims for the encoding
of an image comprising a plurality of pixels in which the computational

complexity of the method is linearly proportional to the plurality of image
pixels in the image to be encoded. 
Apparatus for the fractal coding of data, comprising:

(a) partitioning means for dividing the data into domains;
(b) transform means for manipulating the data for the domains to
determine a set of transformations relating the domains to the data

so as to minimise error between the data and an approximation to
the data obtained by application of the transformations;
(c) quantization means for providing an expression including quantized
fractal transformation coefficients which characterises the

transformations;

   characterised by equation resolution and solution means for resolving the
data for the domains into equations, and minimising the error by solving

the equations.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
