<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649102</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Interactive system and method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G07C1500	H04H100	H04H2091	H04H6094	H04H2030	H04H6033	A63F1312	G06F1900	G07C1300	G07C1500	G07C1300	A63F1312	G06F1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G07C	H04H	H04H	H04H	H04H	H04H	A63F	G06F	G07C	G07C	G07C	A63F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G07C15	H04H1	H04H20	H04H60	H04H20	H04H60	A63F13	G06F19	G07C13	G07C15	G07C13	A63F13	G06F19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An interactive system, comprises a local controller 
(8) operable to control data flow to and from at least two 

local handsets (11,22) for generating data. The local 
controller (8) includes a store (28) for storing data and 

a processor. A central controller (1) is connectable to 
the local controller, and a display (12) is provided for 

displaying data locally from the central controller and the 
local controller. The local controller (8) stores data 

generated by each local handset and selectively transfers 
stored data to the central controller (1). A handset for 

use in the system comprises a transmitter and a receiver 
(9) for transfer of data between the handset (11,22) and 

the local controller and input means to input data for 
controlling the output of the display via the local 

controller is input to the local controller by means of a 
cursor control (33) laterally movable over a plane (36) and 

a sensor (38,41) for sensing a position of the cursor 
control within the plane (36) and causing a cursor on the 

display (12) to take up a similar position. A method of 
operating the system comprises broadcasting first data from 

the central controller to which the local controller 
responds by causing the display to display the broadcast 

first data. Second data from each local handset relating 
to the first data is stored in the local controller and 

then selectively transferred to the central controller if 
predetermined conditions are satisfied. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an interactive system, in
particular for use with mass media broadcasts.Interactive systems are known, for example in a game
playing system where a large number of users at different
remote positions enter predictions relating to a mass media
broadcast, e.g. scores or future moves in a football game,
by way of a temporary connection along a telecomms line to
a central controller. A lock-out function is provided to
prevent the user entering a prediction after the time of
occurrence has passed for the predicted event. The
temporary connection is made as a confirmation of a correct
prediction or total score, rather than transmitting every
prediction to the central processor initially. In these
known systems each player needs their own telephone link
and a control set which includes complex and expensive
circuitry. Groups of players in the same location must
each have a control set to participate.A more sophisticated example is described in EP-A-0405776
(US-A-5083800) in which a game is run on individual
personal computers (PC) and a mass broadcast is used to
alter the parameters of the game for multiple users PC's
simultaneously. The user can send a score or result at the
end of the game. However, this game involves the user in
considerable outlay to obtain his own personal computer and
related equipment.WO91/08810 relates to a method of evaluating data to
determine winners of the game by applying statistical
analysis to define which results need to be read.In accordance with one aspect of the present
invention, an interactive system for use with mass media
broadcasts comprises a local controller operable to control
data flow to and from at least two local handsets for
generating data, the local controller including a store for
storing data and processing means; a central controller for
broadcasting data to the local controller, the local
controller being connectable to the central controller to
communicate data to the central controller; and a 
display for displaying locally both the mass media
broadcast from the central controller and data received
from the local controller, wherein the local controller
stores data generated by each 
local handset and selectively transfers stored data to the
central controller.The system of the present invention enables several
users to participate at the same remote location with a
local controller and communication to a central controller
host, with other remote users at a different location and
also to operate the system locally.Preferably,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An interactive system for use with mass media
broadcasts, the system comprising a local controller (8)

operable to control data flow to and from at least two
local handsets (11,21) for generating data, the local

controller (8) including a store (28) for storing data and
processing means (26); a central controller (1) for

broadcasting data to the local controller (8), the local
controller being connectable to the central controller (1)

to communicate data to the central controller; and a
display (12) for displaying locally both the mass media

broadcast from the central controller and data received
from the local controller; wherein the local controller (8)

stores data generated by each local handset (11,21) and
selectively transfers stored data to the central controller

(1).
A system according to claim 1, wherein the processing
means of the local controller (8) is adapted to address

each local handset (11,22) sequentially in accordance with
a predetermined schedule to obtain data from that handset.
A system according to claim 2, wherein the
predetermined schedule requires each handset (11,22) to be

addressed for an equal time period.
A system according to any preceding claim, wherein the
local controller store (28) is adapted to store data

supplied from the central controller (1).
A system according to any preceding claim, wherein a
unique identifier by which each handset (11,21) is

addressed is allocated during the first use of a handset
within the system or thereafter.
A system according to any preceding claim, wherein the
local controller (8) and central controller (1) are

connectable via one of a telecomms link, and a data
distribution network.
A system according to any preceding claim, wherein the
central controller (1) broadcasts video and text data for

reception by the local controller (8) and for display on
the display (12). 
A system according to any preceding claim, wherein
transfer of data between each handset (11,21) and the local

controller (8) is via an infrared link.
A system according to any preceding claim, wherein the
processing means (26) of the local controller (8)

selectively transfers data to the central controller (1)
only if a predetermined transfer condition is met.
A system according to claim 9, wherein the
predetermined transfer condition comprises exceeding a

predetermined score value at the end of a game play period.
A system according to any of the preceding claims,
wherein the processing means of the local controller (8)

only transmits data to the central controller in response
to a command from the central controller.
A system according to claim 11, when dependent on
claim 7, wherein the command is broadcast by the central

controller along with the video and text data.
A system according to any preceding claim, wherein a
second local controller operable to control data flow to

and from respective second handsets is provided, such that
data may be transferred between the first (8) and second

local controllers via the central controller (1).
A system according to any preceding claim, comprising
one of a game playing system, a purchase system, and an

information system.
A system according to any of the preceding claims,
wherein each handset (11,21) comprises a transmitter and a

receiver (9) for transfer of data from the handset (11,21)
to the local controller (8) and from the local controller

(8) to the handset; input means to input data for
controlling the output of the display via the local

controller, the input means comprising a cursor control
(54) laterally movable over a plane (52), means for sensing

the position of the cursor control within the plane (36)
and for causing a corresponding cursor displayed on the

display (12) to take up a similar position; and, processing
means for processing data from the local controller and

data from the input means and wherein the processing means
controls the transfer of data to the local controller in

accordance with the data from the local controller and the
input means. 
A system according to claim 15, wherein the sensing
means (38,41) monitor a change in potential difference with

a change in position of the cursor control (33).
A system according to claim 15 or claim 16, wherein
the system is one of a game playing system, a purchase

system and an information system.
A method of operating an interactive system for
playing a game according to any of the preceding claims,

the method comprising broadcasting first data from the
central controller whereby the local controller responds by

causing the display to display the broadcast first data;
storing second data in the local controller obtained from

each local handset relating to the first data;
displaying locally data received from the local controller and

selectively transferring the stored second data to the
central controller if predetermined conditions are

satisfied.
A method according to claim 18, wherein the first data
comprises game playing information and the second data

comprises data relating to the playing of the game.
A method according to claim 19, wherein the
predetermined conditions are supplied to the local

controller by the central controller as part of the game
playing information broadcast.
A method according to claim 19 or claim 20, wherein
the predetermined conditions include a minimum score value,

the local controller comparing each stored score with the
minimum score value and only transferring a stored score to

the central controller if the stored score is the same as
or exceeds the minimum score value.
A method according to any of claims 19-21, wherein the
central controller maintains a ranking order for units

which have previously recorded scores and defines an upper
portion of the ranking order from which units are chosen to

transmit their scores.
A method according to any of claims 19-21, wherein the
control controller allows a first group of scores to be

transmitted, then sets one or more further group sizes 
until the desired number of scores which comply with the

predetermined condition is achieved.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
