<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612272</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AUTOMATIC ROTARY SORTER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B07C308	B07C302	B65G4771	B65G4768	B65G4746	B07C304	B65G4746	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B07C	B07C	B65G	B65G	B65G	B07C	B65G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B07C3	B07C3	B65G47	B65G47	B65G47	B07C3	B65G47	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED PARCEL SERVICE OF AMERICA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BONNET HENRI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BONNET, HENRI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the sorting of 
objects, and in particular, to the sorting of objects from a 
single source stream into a plurality of destination streams. In the field of package shipping, packages are received 
from many areas of the country, or even the world, for 
distribution to a variety of other areas. Packages arrive at 
distribution centers in groups sharing common sources and leave 
in groups sharing common destinations. Thus, shipments of 
common-source packages must be efficiently sorted into shipments 
of common-destination packages. Affixed to each package is a shipping label containing, 
along with other information, the zip code of the package 
destination. The zip codes of the possible package destinations 
are organized into twelve different categories, with each zip 
code falling in only one category. In many known sorting systems, a shipment of packages 
arrives at a distribution center, usually by truck. The packages 
are unloaded from the truck onto a feed conveyor which transports 
the packages to a worker who sorts them. In prior art sorting 
systems, this sorter reads the zip code of the destination 
address of each package as it arrives at the end of the feed  
 
conveyor. The sorter determines the appropriate zip code 
category corresponding to the zip code of each package. Adjacent to the sorter is an array of twelve receiving 
conveyors, arranged in three different levels of four receiving 
conveyors each. Each receiving conveyor corresponds to one of 
the twelve zip code categories. The sorter must pick up the 
package from the end of the feed conveyor, turn toward the array 
of receiving conveyors, and place the package onto the correct 
receiving conveyor. Each package is then advanced along its appropriate 
receiving conveyor. A package may then be loaded for further 
shipment or may continue through one or more similar sorting 
operations before being loaded for further shipment. A 
distribution center may also have multiple shipment acceptance 
points. As a result, as many as 20 or 60 sorters may be 
operating simultaneously in a distribution center. There are many problems with these prior art systems. 
For example, complicated training of employees must be provided 
to enable them to perform the sorting operations. Furthermore, 
different sorting stations may have different categories of zip 
codes. Therefore a sorter must know the system of categorization 
of zip codes for an individual sorting station. As a result, a 
sorter must be familiar with
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for sorting an object of a plurality of objects 
(20), comprising: 


source conveyor means (24) for providing said object for 
sorting;
characterized by
a rotatably mounted upright drive shaft (36) which is capable 
of rotating continuously 

about an axis (52) of rotation; 
a first plurality of object receiving and discharging means 
(40) for receiving said object from said source conveyor means 

(24), wherein said object receiving and discharging means (40) 
are slidably coupled to said upright drive shaft (36) for 

rotating said object receiving and discharging means (40) 
about said axis of rotation by said upright drive shaft (36) 

and for moving said object receiving and discharging means 
(40) lengthwise along said upright drive shaft (36); and, 
a second plurality of transverse conveyors (64) arranged in 
a third plurality of substantially horizontal rows, said 

horizontal rows having a fourth plurality of transverse 
conveyors (64) for receiving said objects from said object 

receiving and discharging means. 
The system in accordance with claim 1, wherein said source 
conveyor means (24) comprises an induction conveyor (28) 

having a live roller (32). 
The system in accordance with claim 2, wherein said live 
roller (32) is lagged. 
The system in accordance with claim 2, wherein said 
induction conveyor (28) is tapered. 
The system in accordance with claim 1, wherein said source 
conveyor means (24) further comprises means for measuring the 

length of said object on said source conveyor means.  
 
The system in accordance with claim 1, wherein said source 
conveyor means (24) is tapered. 
The system in accordance with claim 6, wherein said source 
conveyor means (24) comprises a live roller (32). 
The system in accordance with claim 7, wherein said source 
conveyor means (24) comprises a plurality of progressively 

longer live rollers (32). 
The system in accordance with claim 1, wherein said source 
conveyor means (24) comprises means for measuring the length 

of said object (20) on said source conveyor means (24). 
The system in accordance with claim 1, wherein the shape 
of an end of said source conveyor means (24) conforms with the 

shape of an end of said object receiving and discharging means 
(40). 
The system in accordance with claim 1, wherein said object 
receiving and discharging means (40) are tapered. 
The system in accordance with claim 1, wherein said object 
receiving and discharging means (40) comprise a reversible 

conveyor (44) having a live roller (48). 
The system in accordance with claim 12, wherein said 
reversible conveyor (44) is tapered. 
The system in accordance with claim 12, wherein said live 
roller (48) is lagged. 
The system in accordance with claim 1, wherein said 
upright drive shaft (36) and said object receiving and 

discharging means (40) rotate continuously about said axis 
(52) of rotation.  

 
The system in accordance with claim 1, wherein said 
upright drive shaft (36) and said object receiving and 

discharging means (40) rotate about said axis (52) of rotation 
at a constant rate. 
The system in accordance with claim 1, wherein said 
transverse conveyor (64) comprises a live roller (76). 
The system in accordance with claim 17, wherein said live 
roller (76) is lagged. 
The system in accordance with claim 1, wherein the shape 
of an end of said transverse conveyor (64) conforms with the 

shape of an end of said object receiving and discharging means 
(40). 
The system in accordance with claim 1, further comprising 
system controller means for controlling the movements of said 

system. 
The system in accordance with claim 20, wherein said 
system controller means is a programmable logic controller. 
The system in accordance with claim 2, wherein system 
controller means are provided to control the transfer of said 

object (20) to said induction conveyor (28). 
The system in accordance with claim 2, wherein system 
controller means are provided to control the transfer of said 

object (20) from said induction conveyor (28) to one of said 
object receiving and discharging means (40). 
The system in accordance with claim 20, wherein said 
system controller means controls the rotation of said upright 

drive shaft (36) and said object receiving and discharging 
means (40) about said axis (52) of rotation.  

 
The system in accordance with claim 20, wherein said 
system controller means controls said lengthwise movement of 

said object receiving and discharging means (40) along said 
upright drive shaft (36). 
The system in accordance with claim 20, wherein said 
system controller means selects one transverse conveyor (64) 

of said second plurality of transverse conveyors (64) for 
receiving said object (20) from said object receiving and 

discharging means (40). 
The system in accordance with claim 20, wherein said 
system controller means controls the transfer of said object 

(20) from said object receiving and discharging means (40) to 
a selected one of said transverse conveyors (64). 
The system in accordance with claim 1, wherein said object 
receiving and discharging means (40) move lengthwise along 

said upright drive shaft (36) independently of each other. 
The system in accordance with claim 1, wherein said object 
receiving and discharging means (40) moves lengthwise along 

said upright drive shaft (36) simultaneously with each other. 
A method for sorting an object of a plurality of objects 

(20) in a system having object source means (8) for providing 
said object for sorting and a plurality of object receiving 

means (64) for receiving said object after sorting, wherein 
the object receiving means (64) of said plurality of object 

receiving means are spaced apart both horizontally and 
vertically, comprising the steps of: 


(a) providing said object for sorting by said object source 
means (8); 
(b) transferring said object from said object source means 
(8) to object distribution means (12);  

 
(c) horizontally and vertically moving said object by said 
object distribution means (12) from said object source means 

(8) to a selected one of said plurality of object receiving 
means (64); and 
(d) transferring said object from said object distribution 
means (12) to said selected object receiving means (64), wherein
 
said movement of said object by said object distribution means 

(12) comprises rotating movement applied to said object by 
rotation of said object distribution means (12) about an axis 

(52) of rotation, 
characterized in that
 said rotation of said object 
distribution means (12) about said axis (52) of rotation is 

continuous. 
The method in accordance with claim 30, wherein said 
rotation of said object distribution means (12) about said 

axis (52) of rotation is at a constant rate. 
The method in accordance with claim 30, wherein said 
vertical movement of said object by said object distribution 

means (12) comprises motion of said object distribution means 
(12) in the positive and negative vertical direction. 
The method in accordance with claim 30, wherein said 
horizontal and vertical movement of said object by said object 

distribution means (12) comprises both horizontal rotation of 
said object distribution means (12) about an axis (52) of 

rotation and vertical motion of said object distribution means 
(12) substantially parallel to said axis (52) of rotation. 
The method in accordance with claim 33, wherein said 
object distribution means (12) comprises a plurality of 

receiving and discharging means (40) having means for moving 
vertically along said axis of rotation independently of each 

other substantially parallel to said axis (52) of rotation.  
 
The method in accordance with claim 33, wherein said 
vertical movements of individual receiving and discharging 

means (40) of said plurality of said receiving and 
discharging means occur simultaneously with each other. 
The method in accordance with claim 33, wherein said 
objects are sorted at a maximum rate in accordance with a 

predetermined number of receiving and discharging means (40) 
forming said object distribution means (12). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
