<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641242</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FILTER SYSTEM FOR SMOKE OR POLLUTED AIR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D4700	B01D4712	B01D5000	B01D5000	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D47	B01D47	B01D50	B01D50	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAI KONG MING
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAI SUNG CHUAN KIT FRANKLIN T
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAI, KONG-MING
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAI, SUNG-CHUAN KIT, FRANKLIN, T.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAI KONG-MING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAI SUNG-CHUAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAI, KONG-MING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAI, SUNG-CHUAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FILTER SYSTEM FOR SMOKE OR POLLUTED AIRThe present invention relates to a system for cleaning the smoke or the polluted air and more precisely, the present invention relates to a filter system in which a device is provided to clean the smoke or the dirty air with mists of working fluid and devices are provided to clean the waste liquid generated by means of filtering bags and sedimentation troughs, respectively.Background of the InventionUp to the present, there are many filter devices have already been developed to clean the smoke or the dirty air. But, functions offered by these filter devices are quite different from each other. One of these devices is applying water sprayers to carry out the cleaning job. General speaking, the cleaning device with water sprayers is much simpler for installation and very practical for use.The inventors, Sung-Chuan Mai et al . , have endeavoured in the field of air anti-pollution for many years, and have create many devices to treat the waste gas. For instance, U.S. patent No. 5,074,007, CLEANER FOR EXHAUST PIPE, granted on Dec. 24, 1991 is invented by them to clean the dust in the exhaust pipe of a combustion engine. Now, they improve . the art concerning water spraying and the waste water treatment to create a system for cleaning the smoke or the polluted air under the condition of no further contamination occuring.Summary of the Invention Basically, part of the present invention has applied the art of the water spraying, but a completely different arrangement is involved to intensify the filtering effect. A special arranged long duct with a plurality of power sprayers are provided to guide the smoke or the polluted air toward specific directions to mix with mists of the working fluid. The waste liquid flowing down from the duct may pass through a plurality of disposable porous bags so as to retain dirty substances in the waste liquid. The liquid out of the plurality of disposable porous bags may be led into a plurality of sedimentation troughs for further treatment, and the cleaned water obtained may be recycled as part of the working fluid. The pure water or other 

suitable liquids may be used as the working fluid depending on the ingredients containing in the smoke or the polluted air. For instance, the soap water and the detergent water may be used as the working fluid to clean the polluted air or the smoke containing oily or grease substances, the lime water and the refrigerated water may be used as the working fluid to clean the polluted air or the smoke
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims :
1. A filter system for smoke or polluted air comprising a smoke filter. a polluted air filter, a bag filter device, a water treatment device, a coarse ash collector, and a compact type water treatment device; wherein said smoke filter may remove the harmful substances containing in the smoke, the bag filter device may clean the waste liquid flowing down from said smoke filter, the water treatment device may treat the liquid flowing down from said bag filter device, said coarse ash collector may collect bigger particles of ash or dust in the smoke before entering said smoke filter, said polluted air filter may remove the pollutants in the polluted air, and said compact type pollutants water treatment device may treat less turbid waste liquid flowing down from said smoke filter or said polluted air filter.
2. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according to claim 1 wherein said amoke filter may further comprise a sinuously upward duct, a plurality of power sprayers sets, and a power blowing fan, said sinuously upward duct consists of a plurality of transverse duct sections and a plurality of end connectors, both ends of each of said plurality of transverse duct sections except the lowest duct section and the topmost duct section are connected with said plurality of end connectors to form a plurality of bends, said plurality of power sprayers sets are disposed at said plurality of end connectors vertically and in said plurality of duct sections transversly, and said power blowing fan is located at an open end of said lowest duct section.
3. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according to claim 2 wherein said lower duct section has another end connect with the lowest one of said plurality of end connecors is provided with a detachably short duct section near said open end , and said short duct 


section is provided with a smoke inlet at the bottom and a coolin water chamber around most part of the outer surface of said short duc around section.
4. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according t claim 3 wherein a cooling water intake pipe and a cooling water outle pipe is disposed on said short pipe section and said cooling wate intake pipe is extending out a branch portion with a plurality of dri holes in said cooling water chamber.
5. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according t claim 2 wherein said topmost duct section is provided with an en connecting with the upmost one of said plurality of end connectors an another end an outlet with a water stopper for cleaned air flowin out.
6. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according t claim 2 wherein each of said plurality of power sprayers sets may b provided with a plurality of spray nozzles connected to a plurality o parallel water pipes in a rectangular or round form to be fastened t either said end connector or either said transverse duct section.
7. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according t claim 6 wherein each of said plurality of power sprayers sets may b made in arched shape for fastening to either said transverse duc section having a round shape wall.
8. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according t claim 2 wherein each of said plurality of power sprayers sets may b composed of a single water having a plurality of spray nozzles.
9. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according t claim 1 wherein said smoke filter may further comprise a cylindericai upright duct, a spiral guide. a plurality of power sprayers, a center pipe, 


 a water pump, and a power blowing fan, said cyllnderical upright duct is provided with a duct section horizontally extending out at the bottom with an air intake end and a smoke intake port, and an outlet pipe at the top, said spiral guide is a upright swirling plate fixed to the inner wall of said cylinderical upright duct, said center pipe is located at the central portion of said spiral guide with a plurality of water holes, said plurality of power sprayers are properly arranged in said cylinderical upright duct, said power blowing fan is located at said air intake end, and said water pump is located at the lower level of said cylinderical upright duct with an intake pipe connecting to said center pipe and an outlet disposing in said cylinderical upright duct.
10. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according to claim 9 wherein a or a plurality of man holes may be provided near the lower end of said cylinderical upright duct.
11. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according to claim 9 wherein said cylinderical upright duct may be formed in a tapered shape gradually reducing upwards.
12- A filter system for smoke or polluted air according to claim 9 wherein said outlet may be a pipe extending outwards and fixing to a peak top of said cylinderical upward duct or a pipe extending inwards and fixing to a slightly inclining inward flat top of said cylinderical upward duct.
13. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according to claim 9 wherein the cross section of said cylinderical upward duct may be circular, oral or egg-shaped.
14. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according to claim 9 wherein a plurality of smoke intake ports may be provided.
15. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according to claim 1 wherein said smoke filter may further comprise 


 a zigzag upright duct, a baffle-board device, and a plurality of power sprayers sets, said zigzag upright duct is provided with a high presur smoke intake port and a regular smoke intake port at the wider botto and an outlet at the flat top, said baffle-board device, whic consists of a baffle-board and a spring, is disposed near said botto and directly above said high pressure smoke intake port, sai baffle-board is inclinedly disposed in said zigzag upright duct with side fixed to the inner wall of said zigzag upright duct at sai bottom, said spring is disposed at the back of said baffle-board wit an end connecting with the upper central position of said baffle-boar and another end with the inner wall of said zigzag upright duct, an said plurality of power sprayers sets are properly arranged and fixe in the zigzag inner wall of said upright duct respectively.
16. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according t claim 15 wherein said plurality of power sprayers sets may b controlled the timing of starting or stopping spraying the workin fluid by means of a plurality of pressure regulated switches, and sai plurality of pressure regulated switches maybe turned on or turned of depending on the high pressure smoke reaching a predetermined pressur or below said predetermind pressure.
17. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according t claim 1 wherein said smoke filter may further comprise a muti-section horizontal duct, a plurality of power sprayers sets, a suction fan device, a plurality of speed adjustable blowing fan devices, and a plurality of splashing nets, said muti-section horizontal duct is composed of plurality of duct sections in which the first duct section has a intake .air port and a smoke inlet respectively and the final duc section has an outlet for well treated air, said plurality of powe sprayers sets are installed in said plurality of duct section respectively, said suction fan device is located at said outlet fo 


sucking out the cleared air, said plurality of speed adjustable blowing fan devices are disposed in said plurality of duct sections respectively, and said plurality of splashing nets are installed in said plurality of duct sections respectively also to splash mists of working fluid to all directions.
18. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according to claim 1 wherein said smoke filter may further comprises a primary filter unit, a secondary filter unit, and a suction pump, said suction pump is dispoed between said primary filter unit and said secondary filter unit, the most part of dirty substances in the smoke may be removed in said primary filter unit, and the finer ingredients in the smoke may be treated in said secondary filter unit.
19. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according to claim 18 wherein said primary filter unit further comprises a smoke gathering shell, a plurality of power sprayers, a long duct, a plurality of splashing nets, and a waste liquid collecting chamber, said smoke gathering shell is an enclosure inclining like a roof with a plurality of spaced openings at both slant lateral walls for installing part of said plurality of sprayers and with a horizontally disposed cylinderical top, said long duct has an upper end connect with said cylinderical top and extends downward along said smoke gathering shell to connect a waste liquid discharge pipe at the lower end, the rest of said plurality of power sprayers are disposed in said long duct properly, said plurality of splashing nets are also disposed in said long duct properly, and said waste liquid collecting chamber is located at the bottom of said gathering shell and has a slant collecting pan with a waste liquid discharge opening to connect with said waste liquid discharge pipe and an intake port or a plurality of intake ports. 


 20. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according to claim 18 wherein said secondary filter unit further comprises a smoke cooling and cleaning duct, a plurality of power sprayers, a coil pipe, a plurality of splashing nets, and a waste liquid filter tank, said smoke cooling and cleaning duct is an upright duct and provided with a inlet opening at the wall near the bottom and a cleaned air outlet pipe at the top, said coil pipe is arranged around the inner wall of said smoke cooling and cleaning duct with an outlet and inlet connecting with a cold air or refrigerated water supply source, said plurality of power sprayers and said plurality of splashing nets are properly arranged in said smoke cooling and cleaning duct, said waste liuqid filter tank is located near the bottom of said smoke cooling and cleaning duct, a connect pipe has an end at the upper portion of said filter tank and another end at the bottom of said smoke cooling and cleaning duct, and a plurality of filtering webs and a discharge pipe are provided in said filter tank, respectively.
21. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according to claim 1 wherein said polluted air filter further comprises a guide duct , a suction fan device with splashing nets set, an induced-draft fan, a brush type water stopper, a net cover, a plurality of power sprayers, a plurality of splashing nets, said guide duct is horizontally disposed with an end as pollluted air intake and another end as a cleaned air outlet, said induced-draf fan and said net cover are located at said outlet end and said intake end respectively, said plurality of power sprayers are properly installed in said guide duct respectively, said suction fan device with splashing nets set is removably disposed in said guide duct, and said brush type water stopper is located at the rear part of 


said guide duct.
22. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according to claim 21 wherein said suction fan device with splashing nets set further comprises a suction fan device, a plurality of splashing nets , and a plurality of connecting rods, said suction fan device is composed of a plurality of suction fans fastened in a locating frame, said plurality of splashing nets are parallelly disposed respectively, and said plurality of connecting rods are horizontally and parallelly disposed at the periphery of said locating frame and each of said plurality of splashing nets with said suction fan device at an end part of said plurality of connecting rods and said plurality of splashing nets at another end part.
23. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according to claim 22 wherein said suction fan device is near said Intake end and said plurality of splashing nets is near the rear part while said suction fan device with splashing nets set is pushed into said guide duct.
24. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according to claim 21 wherein said brush type water stopper further comprises an arched mounting plate, and a plurality of brushes , said arched mounting plate is detachably located near said outlet end. and said plurality of brushes have each a different length with an end detachably fixed in said arched mounting plate.
25. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according to claim 1 wherein said coarse ash collector futher comprises a coarse ash collecting unit, a suction unit, and a cooling unit, said coarse ash collector unit may collect bigger 


particles of ash or dust in the smoke, said suction unit is disposed beaneath said coarse ash collector to gather said bigger particles o ash or dust ,in a container, and said cooling unit is provided with water drips to cool down the heat generated by the smoke in sai coarse ash collecting unit.
26. A filter system for smoke or pollluted air according t claim 25 wherein said coarse ash collector comprises a collecting cylinder drum, a central shaft, a plurality of attachment plate sets, a scraping bar set, a driving device, said collecting cylinder drum is provided with a cosed end and a cold air intake end ~and has a plurality of spaced openings a the bottom, a plurality of adjustable openings are provided on sai cold air intake end, a smoke inlet is disposed near said cold ai intake end and a smoke outlet is disposed near said closed end, sai central shaft is horizontally extended through said collectin cylinder drum, coupled with said driving device at an end an supported by a frame at another end, said plurality of attachmen plate sets are spacedly arranged on said shaft in said collectin cylinder drum, and said scraping bar set is arranged on said shaf also and keeps contact with the inner wall of said collecting cylinde drum. —
27. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according t claim 26 wherein said plurality of attachment plate sets each furthe comprises a plurality of attachment plates, and a plurality pair
'
s of sliding scraping bars, said plurality of attachment plates are disposed radiall and- equi-angularly respectively, each of said plurality of attachmen plates .is provided two elongated parallel slots, and each of sai plurality pairs of sliding scraping bars are movably secured to eac of said plurality of attachment plates and closely contact with th outer surface of each of said plurality of attachment plate 


respectively through said two parallel slots.
28. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according to claim 26 wherein said scraping bar set further comprises a plurality of transverse scraping bars , a plurality of radial bars, and a plurality of springs said plurality of radial bars are spacedly disposed on said central shaft with an end fixing to said central shaft and another end coupling with said plurality of springs, said plurality of transverse scraping bars connect with said plurality of springs intervally at a lateral side and are pressed by said plurality of springs to contact with the inner wall of said collecting cylinderical drum.
29. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according to claim 25 and claim 26 said suction unit further comprises a suction pipe, a suction pump, and a filter bag, said suction pipe is horizontally located beneath said collecting cylinder drum with an enclosed end and provided with a plurality of spaced openings at the top to correspond with said plurality of openings located at the bottom of said collecting cylinder drum, said suction pump connects another end of said suction pipe, and the outlet of said suction pump is detachably fixed said filter bag.
30. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according to claim 29 wherein said filter bag is porous and flexible and provided with multilayers, the inner most layer in said filter bag has a biggest mesh size, and the outer most layer in said filter bag has a smallest mesh size.
31. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according to claim 25 and claim 26 wherein said cooling unit further comprises a soaking net, 


 a plurality of collecting toughs, a water tank, a plurality of branch pipes, and a horizontal sprinkling pipe, said soaking net is provided to cover the upper outer surface of said collecting cylinder drum, said plurality of collecting troughs are disposed at either side of the lower half of the belly of said collecting cylinder drum symmetrically, said water tank is disposed near said collecting cylinder drum, said horizontal sprinkling pipe is disposed over said soaking net and connects with said plurality of branch pipes intervally at the lateral side, and each of said plurality of branch pipes are provided with an end connecting the lower part of said water tank and another end at the lateral side of said sprinkling pipe.
32. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according to claim 1 wherein said bag filter device further comprises a plurality of filtering bags, a plurality of connecting pipes, and a collecting pan, said plurality of filtering bags are spacedly and vertically disposed and detachably fixed to said plurality of connecting pipes respectively, and said collecting pan is disposed beneath said plurality of filtering bags with a net stand.
33. A filter system system for smoke or polluted air according to claim 1 wherein said water treatment device further comprises a mixing trough with a mixer, a plurality of sedimentation troughs, and a clean water trough with a plurality of pipes, said mixing trough, said plurality of sedimentation troughs, and said clean water trough connect and communicate with each other sequentially, said plurality of sedimentation troughs are each provided with a dust collecting board at the inner bottom, said plurality of pipes in said clean water trough may include a suction pipe or a plurality of suction pipes, and a supplementary water 


supplying pipe with a level control valve.
34. A filter system for smoke or polluted air according to claim 1 wherein said compact type water treatment device further comprises a casing, a filtering bag, a collecting plate, a perforated division board, a central division board, a filter element, and a plurality of high pressure water pumps, said casing is provided with an access door at an upper portion, said central division board separates said casing into two parts, said filter bag is disposed at the upper portion in one of said two parts and detachably fixed to a waste liquid pipe, said collecting plate is disposed beneath said filter bag, said perforated division board is disposed at the lower portion parallel to said central division board, a space between said two division board is provided to fill said filter element, said plurality of high pressure water pumps are disposed at the upper portion in another part, the lower portion in said another part is a clean water trough section, said plurality of water pumps are each provided with a suction pipe section extending into said clear water trough section, and a supplementary water supplying pipe with a level control valve are also provided in said clean water trough section. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
