<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621063</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Block assembly
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63H3304	A63H3308	A63H3310	A63H3306	A63H3312	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63H	A63H	A63H	A63H	A63H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63H33	A63H33	A63H33	A63H33	A63H33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A block assembly formed by assembling regular 
polygonal block plates through square pole-shaped joint 

blocks together. It can be assembled to a desired shape 
with high accuracy and is structurally strong. Each 

regular polygonal block plate 1 is formed with a coupling 
socket in each side. Each joint block, which is brought 

into contact with one side of the block plate, is provided 
on at least two of its side faces with plugs adapted to 

detachably fit in the sockets formed in the block plate. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YOSHIRITSU KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YOSHIRITSU KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KICHIJYO HIROSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KICHIJYO, HIROSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a block assembly formed by
coupling regular polygonal block plates together through
square pole-shaped joint blocks.There is known a block assembly which can be
assembled by coupling component blocks together. Such a
conventional assembly is nothing but a toy.There is not known a block assembly which can be
easily formed into any desired hollow three-dimensional
shape with high accuracy and which is structurally stout
when assembled.Conventional block assemblies are therefore not
suitable as ornaments for furniture and chandeliers or for
other practical applications.An assembly of blocks
is disclosed in DE-OS-22 03 152. The joint blocks
according to this document have a circular shape with a plurality
of recesses, in which portions having a decreased
thickness of the blocks plates can be inserted.It is therefore an object of this invention to
provide a block assembly which is of practical use. This object is achieved by an assembly of blocks according to
claim 1. The dependent claims are related to further advantageous
aspects of the present invention.The block assembly according to this invention
comprises regular polygonal block plates and polygonal
pole-shaped joint blocks coupled to the block plates, the
block plates being formed in each side face thereof with a
socket, the joint blocks being provided on at least two of
the plurality of side faces thereof with plugs detachably
engageable in the sockets formed in the block plates.By coupling a plurality of such regular polygonal 
block plates together by means of joint blocks having plugs
at different positions, it is possible to construct various
kinds of three-dimensional block assemblies.Block plates and joint blocks can be easily coupled
together simply by engaging the plugs formed on the sides
of the joint blocks in the sockets formed in the sides of
the block plates. Once coupled, they are firmly retained
in position because their sides are kept in tight contact
with each other.By combining the block plates and the joint blocks
according to this invention in various ways, it is possible
to build various block assemblies which are structurally
stout and thus can be used not only as toys but also as
ornaments for furniture and chandeliers or for other
practical applications.Other features and objects of the present invention
will become apparent from the following description made
with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
Fig. 1 is a perspective view of one example of the
block plate;Fig. 2 is a perspective
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims for the following Contracting States : DE, DK, FR, IT, NL
An assembly of blocks comprising regular polygonal block
plates (1) with sockets (4) and polygonal pole-shaped joint

blocks (2) with joint portions (7) coupled to said block
plates (1), whereby


each of said regular polygonal block plates (1) is formed
in each side face thereof with a said socket (4), and
said joint portions (7) are formed on at least two of the
plurality of side surfaces (6) of said joint blocks (2) as

plugs (7) detachably engageable in said sockets (4).
An assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the width and
length of each side surface (6) of pole-shaped joint block (2)

is equal to the length and width of a side surface (3) of the
block plates (1).
An assembly as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein each
socket and each plug is U-shaped.
An assembly as claimed in one of claims 1 to 3, wherein
said plurality of block plates (1) includes block plates having

square and regular triangular top and bottom surfaces.
An assembly as claimed in one of claims 1 to 4, wherein at
least some of said joint blocks (2) have a square cross section.
An assembly as claimed in one of claims 1 to 4, wherein
some of the joint blocks (2) have a trapeziodal cross section

with two parallel top and bottom surfaces and two side surfaces 
each intersecting the top surface at an angle of 120° and being

each provided with a plug (7).
An assembly as claimed in one of claims 1 to 4, wherein at

least some of said joint blocks (2) have a regular hexagonal
cross section with six side faces, the plugs being formed on

altertating ones of said six side faces.
An assembly as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein said joint
blocks (2) are in the shape of a regular square prism having

four side surfaces, said each side surface having a width
equal to the thickness of said block plates (1).
An assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein each of said
sockets (4) comprises a central recess and shoulders (5)

formed at the top surface side and bottom surface side of the
central recess (4), and


each of said plugs (7) comprises projecting flanges (8)
formed at its upper and lower end adapted to engage the

shoulders (5) of a corresponding socket (4).
Claims for the following Contracting State : GB
An assembly of blocks comprising a plurality of block
plates (1) and a plurality of joint blocks (2) for coupling

the block plates together,

each block plate (1) having regular polygonal top and bottom
surfaces and at least three side surfaces (3) extending

between the top and bottom surfaces, each of said
side surfaces (3) being provided with a first connecting means

(4);
and each joint block (2) having a plurallity of second
connecting means (7) having a shape complementary to that of a

first connecting means (4) and being detachably engagable into
a first connecting means (4) of a block plate (1),

whereby
each of said first connecting means is formed as a socket
(4) comprising a central recess and shoulders (5) formed at

the top surface side and bottom surface side of the central
recess (4),
each joint block (2) has a polygonal pole shape with a
plurality of side surfaces (6), at least two of said side surfaces

(6) being provided with one of said second connecting
means; and
each of said second connecting means (7) is formed as a
plug (7) having projecting flanges (8) formed at its upper and

lower end adapted to engage the shoulders (5) of a corresponding
socket (4).
An assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the width and
length of each side surface (6) of pole-shaped joint block (2)

is equal to the length and width of a side surface (3) of the
block plates (1). 
An assembly as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein each
socket and each plug is U-shaped.
An assembly as claimed in one of claims 1 to 3, wherein
said plurality of block plates (1) includes block plates

having square and regular triangular top and bottom surfaces.
An assembly as claimed in one of claims 1 to 4, wherein at
least some of said joint blocks (2) have a square cross section.
An assembly as claimed in one of claims 1 to 4, wherein
some of the joint blocks (2) have a trapeziodal cross section

with two parallel top and bottom surfaces and two side surfaces
each intersecting the top surface at an angle of 120° and being

each provided with a plug (7).
An assembly as claimed in one of claims 1 to 4, wherein at
least some of said joint blocks (2) have a regular hexagonal

cross section with six side faces, the plugs being formed on
altertating ones of said six side faces.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
