<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629713</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Stratified enriched zones formed by the gas phase carburization and the slow cooling of cemented carbide substrates, and method of manufacture.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C04B3563	C04B35638	C04B3564	C04B3564	C04B4187	C04B4187	C22C105	C22C105	C22C2906	C22C2908	C23C3000	C23C3000	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C04B	C04B	C04B	C04B	C04B	C04B	C22C	C22C	C22C	C22C	C23C	C23C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C04B35	C04B35	C04B35	C04B35	C04B41	C04B41	C22C1	C22C1	C22C29	C22C29	C23C30	C23C30	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Processes are disclosed in which cemented carbide parts, 
having a wide range of initial carbon levels, and a wide range of 

sizes, can be carburized to a critical carbon level, and then 
slow cooled at various rates, to yield stratified enriched zones 

in the near-surface region of said parts. The enriched zones are 
characterized by the cobalt content decreasing, and the 

microhardness increasing, continuously through the enriched 
zones, and approaching values characteristic of the interior. 

The combination of stratified enriched zones in the near surface 
region and the 6% binder interior provide the toughness and 

deformation resistance required for heavy roughing applications. 
A wide variety of cemented carbides, having different 
compositions and WC grain sizes, can also be carburized and slow 

cooled using the same techniques to yield stratified binder 
enriched zones having the same hardness profiles and cobalt 

content profiles as described above. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VALENITE INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VALENITE INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BENNETT STEPHEN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BENNETT, STEPHEN L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a WC-based cutting tool having 
a combination of toughness and deformation resistance which 
consists of a cemented carbide substrate with a stratified, 
cobalt-enriched surface zone and a double-layer coating of 
titanium carbide and titanium nitride. The term "stratified" 
refers to the layered appearance of the cobalt in the enriched 
zone. This substrate provides high thermal and mechanical 
shock resistance for maximum edge strength and increased insert 
toughness. By combining the enriched surface layer with the 
core substrate at 6% cobalt, the propagation of cracks from the 
coating is prevented and the cutting edge still maintains a 
minimum of deformation due to the heat and high forces 
generated at the cutting edge. The double layer of TiC and 
TiN, applied by chemical vapor deposition, enhances insert wear 
resistance and surface lubricity thereby enhancing tool life. This cemented carbide cutting grade is ideal for heavy 
roughing applications (that is, high metal removal rates) on 
carbon and alloy steels, tool steels, stainless steels and cast 
iron. The inherent toughness of this grade, as a result of the 
cobalt distribution through the enriched zone, provides 
reliable performance in interrupted cuts and in heavy-scale or 
out-of-round conditions found in castings and forgings. The  
 
coating protects the substrate from abrasion and chemical 
attack from scale and by the steel being machined. The present invention further relates to a process of 
making a cutting tool substrate, specifically to the 
achievement of a critical carbon level in the substrate, the 
slow cooling of the substrate to achieve a specific cobalt 
profile through the enriched zone, and maintaining high cobalt 
contents at the top of the enriched zones prior to coating, to 
make the tool suitable for heavy roughing applications. The present invention also relates to the achievement of 
the critical carbon levels in a variety of cemented carbide 
compositions such that stratified enriched zones are formed 
during slow cooling, having the same cobalt profiles and 
hardness profiles as described above. Phase equilibria in the W-C-Co system have been reported 
by J. Gurland ["A Study of the Effect of Carbon Content on the 
Structure and Properties of Sintered WC-Co Alloys", Trans, 
AIME, 200, 285-290 (1954)] and by A.F. Guillermet ["Thermody 
namic Properties of the Co-W-C Sytem", Metall, Trans. A, 20A, 
935-956 (1989)]. Lueth, U.S. Patent 4,579,713 describes the adjustment of 
the carbon
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process to carburize cemented carbide substrates to 
the solubility limits of carbon in a binder of a cemented carbide 

substrate, said substrate having a wide range of thickness and 
initial carbon levels, said process comprising: 


(a) dewaxing a green cemented carbide substrate in a vacuum 
furnace; 
(b) slowly increasing the temperature of the furnace at a 
rate of about 5 to 10°C per minute up to the sintering 

temperature of the cemented carbide substrate; 
(c) introducing methane gas or a gas mixture of methane and 
hydrogen at sub-atmospheric pressures at sintering temperatures 

for a time sufficient saturate the binder with carbon in large, 
initially carbon-deficient parts of the substrate; 
(d) pumping out the gas or gas mixture and introducing an 
inert gas from Group VIII of the periodic table; 
(e) slowly cooling the furnace at a predetermined rate to 
below the solidus temperature of the substrate, thereby 

generating stratified enriched zones on the surfaces of the 
substrate. 
The process of claim 1, wherein after carburization and 
slow cooling, regardless of the size or the initial carbon level 

of the parts, identical enriched zones will be exhibited for a 
given cooling rate. 
The process of claim 1, wherein said binder is selected 
from the group consisting of Co, Ni, Fe and mixtures thereof. 
The process of claim 1, wherein the inert gas is 
selected from the group consisting of Ar, He, and mixtures 

thereof. 
The process of claim 1, wherein the substrate is 
comprised of WC, a binder, and a cubic carbide selected from the 

group consisting of TaC, NbC, TiC, and mixtures thereof. 
The process of claim 1, wherein the thickness of the 
substrate is in the range of about 1/8 inch to about 1/2 inch. 
The process of claim 1, wherein the initial carbon 
levels in the substrate range from about CO2 to about CO8 

porosity. 
The process of claim 1, wherein substrates that are 
initially carbon-correct are not over-carburized regardless of 

the size of the substrate. 
The process of claim 1, wherein the carburizing gas or 
gas mixture is introduced at sub-atmospheric pressures of from 

about 1 torr up to about 90 torr, and preferably from about 1 
torr to about 30 torr. 
The process of claim 1, wherein the carburizing gas or 
gas mixture is allowed to react with the cemented carbide 

substrates for about 0 to about 200 minutes, depending upon 
substrate size and initial carbon levels. 
The process of claim 1, wherein the sintering 
temperature is in the range of about 1,345°C to about 1,420°C. 
The process of claim 1, wherein the gas flow is 
continuous. 
The process of claim 12, wherein the gas is pure 
methane and the flow rate is from about 1 liter per minute to 

about 5 liters per minute. 
The process of claim 12, wherein the gas is a mixture 
of hydrogen and methane, and the hydrogen flow rate is from about 

400cc per minute to about 15 liters per minute and the CH4 flow 
rate is from about 20cc per minute to about 3 liters per minute. 
The process of claim 1, wherein the gas flow is pulsed 
into the furnace. 
The process of claim 15, wherein the gas is pure 
methane and the flow rate is from about 1 liter per minute to 

about 5 liters per minute. 
The process of claim 15, wherein the gas is a mixture 
of hydrogen and methane, and the H2 flow rate is from about 300cc 

per minute to about 10 liters per minute and the CH4 flow rate is 
from about 90cc to about 1.5 liters per minute. 
The process claim 15, wherein the gas is introduced 
over a time range of about 1 second to about 60 seconds, and the 

pumping out of the gas or gas mixture takes place over a time 
range of from about 1 second to about 45 seconds, thereby 

yielding about 115 to about 600 exchanges of gas during a 200 
minute hold. 
The process of claim 1, wherein the carburization time 
is dependent upon the thickness and initial carbon content of the 

substrate. 
The process of claim 1, wherein substrates that are not 
initially in free carbon can be carburized to the solubility 

limit of carbon in the binder by extending the carburization 
 

time, or using higher gas flows, or using higher methane 
contents, depending upon the size of the substrate and the 

specific carbon level. 
The process of claim 19, wherein the substrate is 
greater than 1/2 inch in thickness. 
The process of claim 1, wherein previously sintered 
carbon-deficient parts can be ground to dimensional tolerances, 

then carburized in a second sinter to the critical carbon level 
and slow cooled to generate stratified binder enriched zones. 
The process of claim 1, wherein the substrate is pre-sintered, 
then shaped, and then subjected to the carburization 

process. 
The process of claim 1, wherein the carburized parts 
are slow cooled in 0.5 to 2 torr argon in order to prevent the 

vaporization of the binder. 
The process of claim 1, wherein the cooling rate is 
from about 0.5°C per minute to about 8°C per minute, and 

preferably from about 1.5°C per minute to about 8°C per minute. 
The process of claim 1, wherein the stratified enriched 
zone is from about 10 microns to about 100 microns in thickness, 

and preferably from about 10 microns to about 60 microns in 
thickness. 
The process of claim 1, wherein the carburized 
substrate has enriched zones characterized by the cobalt content 

decreasing and the microhardness increasing through the 
stratified enriched zones and approaching the values 

characteristic of the interior of the substrate. 
The process of claim 1, wherein the cemented carbide 
substrate has a composition consisting of from about 3 to about 

10 weight percent binder selected from the group consisting of 
Co, Ni, Fe, and mixtures thereof, from about 0 to about 11.5 

weight percent cubic carbide selected from the group consisting 
of TaC, TiC, NbC, and mixtures thereof, and the balance WC. 
The process of claim 28, wherein the binder is cobalt, 
present in an amount of about 6 weight percent, and the cubic 

carbide is TaC, present in an amount of about 0 to about 11.5 
weight percent. 
The process of claim 28, wherein the binder is cobalt, 
present in an amount of about 6 weight percent and the cubic 

carbide is TiC, present in an amount of about 0 to about 8 weight 
percent. 
The process of claim 28, further including removing 
thin graphite layers and removing thin binder layers just down to 

the tungsten carbide grains at the top of the enriched zone, and 
then coating the substrate. 
The process of claim 31, further including coating the 
substrate with TiC, TiN, TiCN, Al₂O₃, TiAlN, and mixtures 

thereof. 
The process of claim 32, further including using the 
coated substrate as a cutting insert. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
