<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637333</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IFN RECEPTORS RECOGNITION FACTORS, PROTEIN SEQUENCES AND METHODS OF USE THEREOF.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3800	A61K3800	A61K3821	A61K3821	A61K39395	A61K39395	A61K4900	A61K4900	A61P100	A61P116	A61P3100	A61P3112	A61P3500	A61P3500	A61P3502	A61P4300	A61P4300	C07K14435	C07K1447	C07K1452	C07K14555	C07K1456	C07K1457	C07K1600	C07K1600	C07K1900	C07K1900	C12N121	C12N121	C12N510	C12N510	C12N1509	C12N1509	C12N1512	C12N1512	C12P2102	C12P2102	C12P2108	C12P2108	G01N3353	G01N3353	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61P	A61P	A61P	A61P	A61P	A61P	A61P	A61P	A61P	C07K	C07K	C07K	C07K	C07K	C07K	C07K	C07K	C07K	C07K	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12P	C12P	C12P	C12P	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K38	A61K38	A61K38	A61K38	A61K39	A61K39	A61K49	A61K49	A61P1	A61P1	A61P31	A61P31	A61P35	A61P35	A61P35	A61P43	A61P43	C07K14	C07K14	C07K14	C07K14	C07K14	C07K14	C07K16	C07K16	C07K19	C07K19	C12N1	C12N1	C12N5	C12N5	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12P21	C12P21	C12P21	C12P21	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Receptor recognition factors exist that recognize the specific cell receptor to which a specific ligand has been bound, and that may thereby signal and/or initiate the binding of the transcription factor to the DNA site. The receptor recognition factor is in one instance, a part of a transcription factor, and also may interact with other transcription factors to cause them to activate and travel to the nucleus for DNA binding. The receptor recognition factor appears to be second-messenger-independent in its activity, as overt perturbations in second messenger concentrations are of no effect. The concept of the invention is illustrated by the results of studies conducted with interferon (IFN)-stimulated gene transcription, and particularly, the activation caused by both IFN alpha  and IFN gamma . Specific DNA sequences have been prepared that correspond to polypeptide fragments of two of the ISGF-3 genes, and antibodies have also been prepared and tested. The polypeptides confirm direct involvement of tyrosine kinase in intracellular message transmission. Numerous diagnostic and therapeutic materials and utilities are also disclosed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV ROCKEFELLER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE ROCKEFELLER UNIVERSITY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DARNELL JAMES E JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FU XIN-YUAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHINDLER CHRISTIAN W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHUAI KE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DARNELL, JAMES, E., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FU, XIN-YUAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHINDLER, CHRISTIAN, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHUAI, KE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
I FN RECEPTORS RECOGNITION FACTORS , PROTEIN SEQUENCES AND METHODS OF USE THEREOF.RELATED PUBLICATIONSThe Applicants are authors or co-authors of several articles directed to the subject matter of the present invention. (1) Darnell et al.,"Interferon-Dependent Transcriptional Activation: Signal Transduction Without Second Messenger Involvement?" THE NEW BIOLOGIST. 2(10,: 1-4. (1990); (2) X. Fu et al., "ISGF3, The Transcriptional Activator Induced by Interferon , Consists of Multiple Interacting Polypeptide Chains" PROC. NATL. ACAD. SCI. USA. 87:8555-8559 (1990); (3) D.S. Kessler et al., "IFNα Regulates Nuclear Translocation and DNA-Binding Affinity of ISGF3, A Multimeric Transcriptional Activator" GENES AND DEVELOPMENT. 4: 1753 (1990). All of the above listed articles are incorporated herein by reference.TECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates generally to intracellular receptor recognition proteins or factors(i.e. groups of proteins), and to methods and compositions including such factors or the antibodies reactive toward them, or analogs thereof in assays and for diagnosing, preventing and/or treating cellular debilitation, derangement or dysfunction. More particularly, the present invention relates to particular IFN-dependent receptor recognition molecules that have been identified and sequenced, and that demonstrate direct participation in intracellular events, extending from interaction with the liganded receptor at the cell surface to transcription in the nucleus, and to antibodies or to other entities specific thereto that may thereby selectively modulate such activity in mammalian cells.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThere are several possible pathways of signal transduction that might be followed after a polypeptide ligand binds to its cognate cell surface receptor. Within 

minutes of such ligand-receptor interaction, genes that were previously quiescent are rapidly transcribed (Murdoch et al., 1982; Lamer et al., 1984; Friedman et al., 1984; Greenberg and Ziff, 1984; Greenberg et al., 1985). One of the most physiologically important, yet poorly understood, aspects of these immediate transcriptional responses is their specificity: the set of genes activated, for example, by platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), does not completely overlap with the one activated by nerve growth factor (NGF) or tumor necrosis factor (TNF) (Cochran et al., 1983; Greenberg et al., 1985; Almendral et al., 1988; Lee et al., 1990). The interferons (IFN) activate sets of other genes entirely. Even
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A receptor recognition factor implicated in the transcriptional stimulation of genes in target cells in response to the binding of a specific polypeptide ligand to its cellular receptor on said target cell, said receptor recognition factor having the following characteristics: a) apparent direct interaction with the ligand-bound receptor and activation of one or more transcription factors capable of binding with a specific gene; b) an activity demonstrably unaffected by the presence or concentration of second messengers; c) direct interaction with tyrosine kinase domains; and d) a perceived absence of interaction with G-proteins.
2. The receptor recognition factor of Claim 1, having the following characteristics: a) It interacts with an interferon-γ-bound receptor kinase complex; b) It is a tyrosine kinase substrate; and c) When phosphorylated, it serves as a DNA binding protein.
3. The receptor recognition factor of Claim 2 further characterized in that: d) Interferon-γ-dependent activation of said factor occurs without new protein synthesis; and e) Activation of said factor appears within minutes of interferon-γ treatment, achieves maximum extent between 15 and 30 minutes thereafter, and then disappears after 2-3 hours.
4. The receptor recognition factor of Claim 1 which is proteinaceous in composition.
5. The receptor recognition factor of Claim 1 which is cytoplasmic in origin. 


 6. The receptor recognition factor of Claim 1 which is derived from mammalian cells.
7. The receptor recognition factor of Claim 1 labeled with a detectable label.
8. The receptor recognition factor of Claim 7 wherein the label is selected from enzymes, chemicals which fluoresce and radioactive elements.
9. An antibody to a receptor recognition factor, the factor to which said antibody is raised having the following characteristics: a) apparent direct interaction with the ligand-bound receptor and activation of one or more transcription factors capable of binding with a specific gene; b) an activity demonstrably unaffected by the presence or concentration of second messengers; and c) direct interaction with tyrosine kinase domains; and d) a perceived absence of interaction with G-proteins.
10. The antibody of Claim 9, wherein said receptor recognition factor has the following characteristics: a) It interacts with an interferon-γ-bound receptor kinase complex; b) It is a tyrosine kinase substrate; and c) When phosphorylated, it serves as a DNA binding protein.
11. The antibody of Claim 10, wherein said receptor recognition factor is further characterized in that: d) Interferon-γ-dependent activation of said factor occurs without new protein synthesis; and e) Activation of said factor appears within minutes of interferon-γ treatment, achieves maximum extent between 15 and 30 minutes thereafter, and then disappears after 2-3 hours. 


12. The antibody of Claim 9 comprising a polyclonal antibody.
13. The antibody of Claim 9 comprising a monoclonal antibody.
14. An immortal cell line that produces a monoclonal antibody according to Claim 13.
15. The antibody of Claim 9 labeled with a detectable label.
16. The antibody of Claim 15 wherein the label is selected from enzymes, chemicals which fluoresce and radioactive elements.
17. A DNA sequence or degenerate variant thereof, which encodes a receptor recognition factor, or a fragment thereof, selected from the group consisting of: (A) the DNA sequence of FIGURE 1; (B) the DNA sequence of FIGURE 2; (C) the DNA sequence of FIGURE 3; (D) DNA sequences that hybridize to any of the foregoing DNA sequences under standard hybridization conditions; and (E) DNA sequences that code on expression for an amino acid sequence encoded by any of the foregoing DNA sequences.
18. A recombinant DNA molecule comprising a DNA sequence or degenerate variant thereof, which encodes a receptor recognition factor, or a fragment thereof, selected from the group consisting of: (A) the DNA sequence of FIGURE 1; (B) the DNA sequence of FIGURE 2; (C) the DNA sequence of FIGURE 3; (D) DNA sequences that hybridize to any of the foregoing DNA sequences under standard hybridization conditions; and 


 (E) DNA sequences that code on expression for an amino acid sequence encoded by any of the foregoing DNA sequences.
19. The recombinant DNA molecule of either of Claims 17 or 18, wherein said DNA sequence is operatively linked to an expression control sequence.
20. The recombinant DNA molecule of Claim 19, wherein said expression control sequence is selected from the group consisting of the early or late promoters of SV40, CMV, vaccinia, polyoma or adenovims, the lac system, the trp system, the TAC system, the TRC system, theZ R system, the major operator and promoter regions of phage λ, the control regions of fd coat protein, the promoter for 3-phosphoglycerate kinase, the promoters of acid phosphatase and the promoters of the yeast α-mating factors.
21. A probe capable of screening for the receptor recognition factor in alternate species prepared from the DNA sequence of Claim 17.
22. A unicellular host transformed with a recombinant DNA molecule comprising a DNA sequence or degenerate variant thereof, which encodes a receptor recognition factor, or a fragment thereof, selected from the group consisting of: (A) the DNA sequence of FIGURE 1; (B) the DNA sequence of FIGURE 2; (C) the DNA sequence of FIGURE 3; (D) DNA sequences that hybridize to any of the foregoing DNA sequences under standard hybridization conditions; and (E) DNA sequences that code on expression for an amino acid sequence encoded by any of the foregoing DNA sequences; wherein said DNA sequence is operatively linked to an expression control sequence. 



23. The unicellular host of Claim 22 wherein the unicellular host is selected from the group consisting of E. coli, Pseudomonas, Bacillus, Streptomyces, yeasts, CHO, Rl. l, B-W, L-M, COS 1, COS 7, BSC1, BSC40, and BMT10 cells, plant cells, insect cells, and human cells in tissue culture.
24. A method for measuring the presence of a receptor recognition factor, said receptor recognition factor having the following characteristics: apparent direct interaction with the ligand-bound receptor and activation of one or more transcription factors capable of binding with a specific gene; an activity demonstrably unaffected by the presence or concentration of second messengers; direct interaction with tyrosine kinase domains; and a perceived absence of interaction with G-proteins, wherein said receptor recognition factor is measured by: A. preparing at least one sample of said receptor recognition factor; B. preparing at least one corresponding antibody or binding partner directed to said receptor recognition factor samples; C. placing a detectible label on a material selected from the group consisting of said receptor recognition factor samples and said antibody or binding partners thereto; D. immobilizing a material selected from the group consisting of the material from Step C that is not labeled, and a biological sample from a mammal in which the presence and/or activity of said receptor recognition factor is suspected, on a suitable substrate; E. placing the labeled material from Step C in contact with said biological sample, and in contact with the immobilized material; F. separating the material from Step C that is bound to said immobilized material from material from Step C not bound to said immobilized material; and G. examining said bound material for the presence of said labeled material. 


25. The method of Claim 24, wherein said receptor recognition factor has the following characteristics: a) It interacts with an interferon-γ-bound receptor kinase complex; b) It is a tyrosine kinase substrate; and c) When phosphorylated, it serves as a DNA binding protein.
26. The method of Claim 25, wherein said receptor recognition factor is further characterized in that: d) Interferon-γ-dependent activation of said factor occurs without new protein synthesis; and e) Activation of said factor appears within minutes of interferon-γ treatment, achieves maximum extent between 15 and 30 minutes thereafter, and then disappears after 2-3 hours.
27. The method of Claim 24 comprising a method for measuring the presence and activity of a polypeptide ligand associated with a given invasive stimulus in mammals.
28. The method of Claim 27 wherein said invasive stimulus is an infection.
29. The method of Claim 28 wherein said invasive stimulus is selected from the group consisting of viral infection, protozoan infection, tumorous mammalian cells, and toxins.
30. The method of Claim 24 comprising a method for determining the presence of invasive or idiopathic stimuli in mammals.
31. A method for measuring the binding sites for a receptor recognition factor, said receptor recognition factor having the following characteristics: 


 apparent direct interaction with the ligand-bound receptor and activation of one or more transcription factors capable of binding with a specific gene; an activity demonstrably unaffected by the presence or concentration of second messengers; direct interaction with tyrosine kinase domains; and a perceived absence of interaction with G-proteins; wherein the binding sites for said receptor recognition factor are measured by: A. providing at least one sample of said receptor recognition factor; B. placing a detectible label on said receptor recognition factor sample; C. placing the labeled receptor recognition factor sample in contact with a biological sample from a mammal in which binding sites for said receptor recognition factor are suspected; D. examining said biological sample in binding studies for the presence of said labeled receptor recognition factor.
32. A method of testing the ability of a dmg or other entity to modulate the activity of a receptor recognition factor which comprises culturing a colony of test cells which has a receptor for the receptor recognition factor in a growth medium containing the receptor recognition factor, adding the drug under test and thereafter measuring the reactivity of said receptor recognition factor with the receptor on said colony of test cells, said receptor recognition factor having the following characteristics: a) apparent direct interaction with the ligand-bound receptor and activation of one or more transcription factors capable of binding with a specific gene; b) an activity demonstrably unaffected by the presence or concentration of second messengers; c) direct interaction with tyrosine kinase domains; and d) a perceived absence of interaction with G-proteins. 


33. The method of either of Claims 31 or 32, wherein said receptor recognition factor has the following characteristics: a) It interacts with an interferon-γ-bound receptor kinase complex; b) It is a tyrosine kinase substrate; and c) When phosphorylated, it serves as a DNA binding protein.
34. The method of Claim 33, wherein said receptor recognition factor is further characterized in that: d) Interferon-γ-dependent activation of said factor occurs without new protein synthesis; and e) Activation of said factor appears within minutes of interferon-γ treatment, achieves maximum extent between 15 and 30 minutes thereafter, and then disappears after 2-3 hours.
35. An assay system for screening dmgs and other agents for ability to modulate the production of a receptor recognition factor, comprising an observable cellular test colony inoculated with a dmg or agent, and yielding a resulting supematant, said supematant then to be examined for the presence of said receptor recognition factor, said receptor recognition factor having the following characteristics: a) apparent direct interaction with the ligand-bound receptor and activation of one or more transcription factors capable of binding with a specific gene; b) an activity demonstrably unaffected by the presence or concentration of second messengers; c) direct interaction with tyrosine kinase domains; and d) a perceived absence of interaction with G-proteins.
36. The assay system of Claim 35, wherein said receptor recognition factor has the following characteristics: 


 a) It interacts with an interferon-γ-bound receptor kinase complex; b) It is a tyrosine kinase substrate; and c) When phosphorylated, it serves as a DNA binding protein.
37. The assay system of Claim 36, wherein said receptor recognition factor is further characterized in that: d) Interferon-γ-dependent activation of said factor occurs without new protein synthesis; and e) Activation of said factor appears within minutes of interferon-γ treatment, achieves maximum extent between 15 and 30 minutes thereafter, and then disappears after 2-3 hours.
38. A test kit for the demonstration of a receptor recognition factor in a eukaryotic cellular sample, comprising: A. a predetermined amount of at least one labeled immunochemically reactive component obtained by the direct or indirect attachment of said receptor recognition factor or a specific binding partner thereto, to a detectable label, said receptor recognition factor having the following characteristics: apparent direct interaction with the ligand-bound receptor and activation of one or more transcription factors capable of binding with a specific gene; an activity demonstrably unaffected by the presence or concentration of second messengers; direct interaction with tyrosine kinase domains; and a perceived absence of interaction with G-proteins; B. other reagents; and C. directions for use of said kit.
39. The test kit of Claim 38, wherein said receptor recognition factor has the following characteristics: a) It interacts with an interferon-γ-bound receptor kinase complex; b) It is a tyrosine kinase substrate; and c) When phosphorylated, it serves as a DNA binding protein. 


40. The test kit of Claim 39, wherein said receptor recognition factor is further characterized in that: d) Interferon-γ-dependent activation of said factor occurs without new protein synthesis; and e) Activation of said factor appears within minutes of interferon-γ treatment, achieves maximum extent between 15 and 30 minutes thereafter, and then disappears after 2-3 hours.
41. The test kit of any of Claims 38-40, wherein said labeled immunochemically reactive component is selected from the group consisting of polyclonal antibodies to the receptor recognition factor, monoclonal antibodies to the receptor recognition factor, fragments thereof, and mixtures thereof.
42. A method of preventing and/or treating cellular debilitations, derangements and/or dysfunctions and/or other disease states in mammals, comprising administering to a mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a material selected from the group consisting of a receptor recognition factor, an agent capable of promoting the production and/or activity of said receptor recognition factor, an agent capable of mimicking the activity of said receptor recognition factor, an agent capable of inhibiting the production and/or activity of said receptor recognition factor, and mixtures thereof, or a specific binding partner thereto, said receptor recognition factor having the following characteristics: a) apparent direct interaction with the ligand-bound receptor and activation of one or more transcription factors capable of binding with a specific gene; b) an activity demonstrably unaffected by the presence or concentration of second messengers; c) direct interaction with tyrosine kinase domains; and d) a perceived absence of interaction with G-proteins. 


43. The method of Claim 42, wherein said receptor recognition factor has the following characteristics: a) It interacts with an interferon-γ-bound receptor kinase complex; b) It is a tyrosine kinase substrate; and c) When phosphorylated, it serves as a DNA binding protein.
44. The method of Claim 43, wherein said receptor recognition factor is further characterized in that: d) Interferon-γ-dependent activation of said factor occurs without new protein synthesis; and e) Activation of said factor appears within minutes of interferon-γ treatment, achieves maximum extent between 15 and 30 minutes thereafter, and then disappears after 2-3 hours.
45. The method of Claim 42 wherein said disease states include chronic viral hepatitis, hairy cell leukemia, and tumorous conditions.
46. The method of Claim 42 wherein said receptor recognition factor is administered to modulate the course of therapy where interferon is being administered as the primary therapeutic agent.
47. The method of Claim 42 wherein said agent is administered to modulate the course of therapy where interferon is being administered as the primary therapeutic agent.
48. The method of Claim 42 wherein said receptor recognition factor is administered to modulate the course of therapy where interferon is being co- administered with one or more additional therapeutic agents. 


49. The method of Claim 42 wherein said agent is administered to modulate the course of therapy where interferon is being co-administered with one or more additional therapeutic agents.
50. A pharmaceutical composition for the treatment of cellular debilitation, derangement and/or dysfunction in mammals, comprising: A. a therapeutically effective amount of a material selected from the group consisting of a receptor recognition factor, an agent capable of promoting the production and/or activity of said receptor recognition factor, an agent capable of mimicking the activity of said receptor recognition factor, an agent capable of inhibiting the production and/or activity of said receptor recognition factor, and mixtures thereof, or a specific binding partner thereto, said receptor recognition factor having the following characteristics: apparent direct interaction with the ligand-bound receptor and activation of one or more transcription factors capable of binding with a specific gene; an activity demonstrably unaffected by the presence or concentration of second messengers; direct interaction with tyrosine kinase domains; and a perceived absence of interaction with G-proteins; and B. a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
51. The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 50, wherein said receptor recognition factor has the following characteristics: a) It interacts with an interferon-γ-bound receptor kinase complex; b) It is a tyrosine kinase substrate; and c) When phosphorylated, it serves as a DNA binding protein.
52. The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 51, wherein said receptor recognition factor is further characterized in that: d) Interferon-γ-dependent activation of said factor occurs without new protein synthesis; and 


 e) Activation of said factor appears within minutes of interferon-γ treatment, achieves maximum extent between 15 and 30 minutes thereafter, and then disappears after 2-3 hours.
53. A receptor recognition factor implicated in the transcriptional stimulation of genes in target cells in response to the binding of a specific polypeptide ligand to its cellular receptor on said target cell, said receptor recognition factor having the following properties: a) it is present in cytoplasm; b) it undergoes tyrosine phosphorylation upon treatment of cells with IFNα; c) it activates transcription of an interferon stimulated gene; d) it stimulates either an ISRE-dependent or a gamma activated site (GAS)-dependent transcription in vivo; e) it interacts with IFNα cellular receptors, and f) it undergoes nuclear translocation upon stimulation of the IFN cellular receptors with IFNα.
54. A receptor recognition factor implicated in the transcriptional stimulation of genes in target cells in response to the binding of an interferon or interferon- related polypeptide ligand to its cellular receptor on said target cell, said receptor recognition factor having the following properties: a) it is present in vivo in mammalian cytoplasm before activation of cellular IFN receptors; b) it contains tyrosine sites that are phosphorylated in response to IFN stimulation of IFN receptors; c) it has a molecular weight selected from the group consisting of 48 kD, 84 kP, 91 kD and 113 kD, and d) when phosphorylated, it recognizes an ISRE in the cell nucleus. 


55. The receptor recognition factor of either of Claims 53 or 54 in phosphorylated form.
56. An antibody which recognizes a phosphorylated ISGF3 polypeptide or a fragment thereof in phosphorylated form.
57. An antibody produced by injecting a substantially immunocompetent host with an antibody-producing effective amount of an ISGF3 polypeptide, and harvesting said antibody, said ISGF3 polypeptide having the following properties: a) it has a molecular weight of about 48 kO, 84 kD, 91 kP or 113 kP; b) it can be isolated from mammalian cytoplasm; c) it contains tyrosine residues that are subject to phosphorylation in vivo upon treatment of cells with IFNα; d) it can activate transcription of an interferon stimulated gene in vivo; e) it can stimulate ISRE-dependent transcription in vivo; f) it can interact with IFNα cellular receptors, and g) it can undergo nuclear translocation upon stimulation of IFN cellular receptors with IFNα.
58. The antibody of either of Claims 56 or 57 which is monoclonal.
59. The antibody of either of Claims 56 or 57 which is polyclonal.
60. A recombinant vims transformed with the PNA molecule, or a derivative or fragment thereof, in accordance with Claim 17.
61. A recombinant vims transformed with the PNA molecule, or a derivative or fragment thereof, in accordance with Claim 18.
62. A method of enhancing the activity of IFNα and/or IFNγ in a mammal in need of such treatment, comprising administering to said mammal an effective 


amount of a compound which (a) enhances the phosphorylation of the receptor recognition factor of Claim 1, or (b) inhibits the activity of a phosphatase enzyme which would otherwise reduce the level of phosphorylated receptor recognition factor.
63. A method of treating (a) chronic viral hepatitis or (b) hairy cell leukemia, in a mammal in need of such treatment, comprising administering to said mammal an effective amount of a compound which (a) enhances the phosphorylation of the receptor recognition factor of Claim 1 , or (b) decreases the level of phosphate removal from phosphorylated receptor recognition factor.
64. The method of Claim 62 wherein the activity of exogenous IFNα and/or IFNγ is enhanced.
65. The method of Claim 62 wherein the activity of endogenous IFNα and/or IFNγ is enhanced.
66. The method of Claim 64 wherein the compound and IFNα and/or IFNγ are administered concuπently to tne mammal in need of such treatment.
67. A method of determining the interferon-related pharmacological activity of a compound comprising: administering the compound to a mammal; determining the level of phosphorylated receptor recognition factor present; and comparing the level of receptor recognition factor-phosphate to a standard.
68. In a method of treating hepatitis or leukemia in a mammal, wherein IFNγ is administered in an amount effective for treating such hepatitis or leukemia, the improvement comprising administering to said mammal a receptor recognition 


factor of Claim 1 or a derivative thereof in an amount effective for enhancing the activity of said IFNγ.
69. A method of deterrnining the interferon-related pharmacological activity of a compound comprising: administering the compound to a mammal; determining the level of phosphorylated ISGF3 proteins present; and comparing the level of ISGF3 protein-phosphate to a standard.
70. In a method of treating hepatitis or leukemia in a mammal, wherein IFNα is administered in an amount effective for treating such hepatitis or leukemia, the improvement comprising administering to said mammal an ISGF3 protein or a derivative thereof in an amount effective for enhancing the activity of said IFNα.
71. The method of Claim 70 wherein a derivative of said ISGF3 protein is administered.
72. The method of Claim 71, wherein said ISGF3 protein has a molecular weight of about 48 kO, 84 kP, 91 kP or 113 kP.
73. The method of Claim 71 wherein the derivative is a phosphorylated ISGF3 protein.
74. The recombinant DNA molecule of Claim 18 comprising plasmid pGEX- 3X, clone E3 or plasmid pGEX-3X, clone E4.
75. An antisense nucleic acid against a receptor recognition factor mRNA comprising a nucleic acid sequence hybridizing to said mRNA.
76. The antisense nucleic acid of Claim 75 comprising RNA. 


77. The antisense nucleic acid of Claim 75 comprising DNA.
78. The antisense nucleic acid of Claim 75 which binds to the initiation codon of any of said mRNAs.
79. A recombinant DNA molecule having a DNA sequence which, on transcription, produces an antisense ribonucleic acid against a receptor recognition factor mRNA, said antisense ribonucleic acid comprising an nucleic acid sequence hybridizing to said mRNA.
80. A receptor recognition factor-producing cell line transfected with a recombinant DNA molecule having a DNA sequence which, on transcription, produces an antisense ribonucleic acid against a receptor recognition factor mRNA, said antisense ribonucleic acid comprising an nucleic acid sequence hybridizing to said mRNA.
81. A method for creating a cell line which exhibits reduced expression of a receptor recognition factor, comprising transfecting a recognition factor-producing cell line with a recombinant DNA molecule having a DNA sequence which, on transcription, produces an antisense ribonucleic acid against a receptor recognition factor mRNA, said antisense ribonucleic acid comprising an nucleic acid sequence hybridizing to said mRNA.
82. A ribozyme that cleaves receptor recognition factor mRNA.
83. The ribozyme of Claim 82 further comprising a Tetrahymena- ype ribozyme.
84. The ribozyme of Claim 82 further comprising a Hammerhead-type ribozyme. 


85. A recombinant DNA molecule having a DNA sequence which, upon transcription, produces a ribozyme that cleaves receptor recognition factor mRNA.
86. A receptor recognition factor-producing cell line transfected with a recombinant DNA molecule having a DNA sequence which, upon transcription, produces a ribozyme that cleaves receptor recognition factor mRNA.
87. A method for creating a cell line which exhibits reduced expression of a receptor recognition factor, comprising transfecting a recognition factor-producing cell line with a recombinant DNA molecule that produces on transcription a ribozyme that cleaves receptor recognition factor mRNA. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
