<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636233</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PASSIVE DEFROST SYSTEM USING WASTE HEAT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F25B1300	F25B1300	F25B4702	F25B4702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F25B	F25B	F25B	F25B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F25B13	F25B13	F25B47	F25B47	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DINH KHANH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DINH, KHANH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DINH KHANH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DINH, KHANH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PASSIVE DEFROST SYSTEM USING WASTE HEATBackground of the InventionA wide variety of heating refrigeration and air conditioning systems are known which employ an evaporator, a condenser, an expansion valve or capillary tube, and a compressor. In such systems, low pressure refrigerant is compressed by the compressor and leaves the compressor as a vapor at an elevated pressure, and then condenses in the condenser, resulting in a transfer of heat to the environment surrounding the condenser. High pressure liquid then passes through an expansion valve in which some of the liquid refrigerant flashes into vapor. The remaining fluid is vaporized in the low pressure evaporator, resulting in a transfer of heat to the evaporating refrigerant from the environment. The refrigerant vapor is then drawn into the compressor, and the cycle begins again.In some applications, the refrigerant may be cooled in the evaporator to a temperature which results in the formation of ice on the external surfaces of the evaporator. For example, the condenser of a heat pump typically forms an indoor coil of a system, and the evaporator forms an outdoor coil which extracts heat from the ambient air. During the heating cycle, ice may build up on the outdoor coil as water condenses on the coil because the temperature of the refrigerant in this coil is substantially below the freezing point of water. Accumulated ice may act as an insulator and provide a thermal barrier which interferes with heat transfer between the refrigerant in the evaporator and the outside environment. This in turn results in a significant decrease in the efficiency of the heat pump.In order to avoid or at least inhibit this decrease in efficiency, procedures have been proposed to defrost the outdoor coils of heat pumps at regular intervals. 

Defrosting is typically performed by one of two procedures, both of which require the expenditure of substantial amounts of energy.According to the firstprocedure, a resistive heating element is connected to the evaporator and is activated and deactivated as required to effect the defrost operation. While such external heat sources effectively defrost the evaporator, they are complicated construct, install, and control. In addition, they tend to be very energy intensive and in turn would decrease the efficiency of the heat pump.The second common procedure for defrosting the evaporator of a heat pump involves the reversal of the heat pump cycle such that the flow refrigerant is reversed, and the evaporator becomes the condenser
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What Is Claimed Is;
1. A system comprising:
(A) a condenser having an outlet port;
(B) an evaporator having an inlet port which is connected to said outlet port of said condenser and having a second outlet port;
(C) a heat exchanger/storage defrost module which is in series with said outlet port of said condenser and which has a heat storage medium located therein which exchanges heat with refrigerant flowing through said defrost module; and
(D) a device which establishes a flow of refrigerant between said defrost module and said evaporator during a passive defrost operation such that said evaporator is passively defrosted.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein said heat storage medium comprises a heat exchange/storage medium which exchanges heat with said refrigerant.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein said heat- exchange/storage medium comprise at least one phase change material.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein said condenser and evaporator are indoor and outdoor coils of a heat- pump. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said condenser and evaporator are components of a refrigeration system.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein said condenser and evaporator are components of an ice maker system.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein said evaporator is located above said defrost module, and wherein said defrost module and said evaporator form a gravity heat pipe.
8. A heat pump comprising:
(A) an indoor coil having inlet and outlet ports;
(B) an outdoor coil having a first port which is connected to said outlet port of said indoor coil and having a second port; 


 (C) a heat exchanger/storage defrost module which is located in series between said outlet port of said indoor coil and said first port of said outdoor coil and which has a heat exchange medium located therein which exchanges heat with refrigerant flowing through said defrost module.
(D) a compressor which, when activated, pumps refrigerant out of said outlet port of said indoor coil, through said defrost module, through said outdoor coil; and
(E) pressure responsive valves which are located between said defrost module and said outdoor coil, which are closed by the pressure generated by said compressor when said compressor is activated, and which open when said compressor is deactivated to effect said passive defrost operation by permitting refrigerant flow between said outdoor coil and said defrost module.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein said outdoor coil is located above said defrost module, and wherein said defrost module and said outdoor coil form a gravity heat pipe.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein said outdoor coil and said defrost module form a heat-exchange loop having a small pump which circulates refrigerant between said outdoor coil and said defrost module. 11. A method comprising the steps of:
(A) condensing a refrigerant in a condenser; then
(B) cooling said condensed refrigerant in a heat exchanger/storage defrost module located in series between said condenser and an evaporator, said defrost module having a heat exchange medium located therein which exchanges heat with said condensed refrigerant and stores the heat removed from said condensed refrigerant; and then
(C) evaporating said condensed refrigerant in said evaporator by conveying said refrigerant through an expansion device; and 


 (D) passively defrosting said evaporator by permitting said refrigerant to flow between said evaporator and said defrost module.
12. The system of claim 11, comprising passively defrosting an absorption type air-conditioning system.
13. The system of claim l, wherein said heat exchanger/storage defrost module is directly connected between said outlet port of said condenser and said inlet port of said evaporator. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein said refrigerant is liquid refrigerant.
15. The system of claim 1, further comprising a compressor and means for isolating said heat exchanger/storage defrost module and said evaporator from said compressor and said condenser, and wherein when said compressor is activated said compressor, said condenser, said evaporator, and said heat exchange/storage defrost module form a refrigeration circuit, and when said compressor is deactivated, said isolating means isolates said evaporator and said heat exchanger from said compressor and said condenser thereby creating a defrost circuit including said evaporator and said heat exchanger/storage defrost module whichpassively defrosts said evaporator. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein said isolating means includes a four-way valve.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein said isolating means automatically isolates said evaporator and said heat exchange/storage defrost module from said compressor and said condenser when said compressor is deactivated.
18. A method comprising the steps of:
(A) providing a refrigeration circuit including a compressor; an evaporator circuit, a condenser circuit, and a heat exchanger/storage defrost module, said condenser circuit including a condenser and said evaporator circuit including an evaporator;
(B) passing liquid refrigerant from said condenser to said heat exchanger/storage defrost module 


and then from said heat exchanger/storage defrost module to said evaporator;
(C) utilizing said heat exchanger/storage defrost module to remove heat from said liquid refrigerant supplied to said heat exchanger/storage defrost module from said condenser;
(D) storing said removed heat in said heat exchanger/storage defrost module;
(E) deactivating the operation of said compressor and concurrently and automatically isolating said evaporator circuit from said condenser circuit so that said evaporator and said heat exchange/storage defrost module form a defrost circuit which is isolated from said condenser circuit; (F) allowing said removed heat which is stored in said heat exchanger/storage defrost module to be transferred into liquid refrigerant in said defrost circuit; and
(G) passivbely defrosting said evaporator utilizing said defrost circuit. 19. A system comprising:
(A) a condenser having an outlet port;
(B) an evaporator having an inlet port which is connected to said outlet port of said condenser and having a second outlet port;
(C) a heat exchanger/storage defrost module which is in series with said outlet port of said condenser and which has a heat storage medium located therein which exchanges heat with refrigerant flowing through said heat exchanger/storage defrost module;
(D) a device which establishes a flow of refrigerant between said heat exchanger/storage defrost module and said evaporator during a passive defrost operation such; and (E) a compressor which, when activated, pumps refrigerant from said outlet port od said condenser through said heat exchanger/storage defrost module and said evaporator; 


 wherein said device comprises pressure responsive valves which are located between said defrost module and said evaporator, which are closed by the pressure generated by said compressor when said compressor is activated, and which open when said compressor is deactivated to effect a passive defrost operation by permitting refrigerant flow between said evaporator and said defrost module. 20. A system comprising: (A) a condensor having an outlet port;
(B) an evaporator having an inlet port which is connected to said outlet port of said condenser and having a second outlet port;
(C) a heat exchanger/storage defrost module which is in series with said outlet port of said condenser and which has a heat storage medium located therein which exchanges heat with refrigerant flowing through said heat exchanger/storage defrost module;
(D) a device which establishes a flow of refrigerant beteen said heat exchanger/storage defrost module and said evaporator during a passive defrost operation;
(E) a compressor which, when activated, pumps refrigerant from said outlet port of condenser, through said defrost module and said evaporator, and
(F) a fan which, when activated, forces air through said evaporator, said fan being actibvated when said compressor is activated and deactivated when said compressor is deactivated. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
