<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642652</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ROLLS FOR HIGH TEMPERATURE ROLLER HEARTH FURNACES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F27D300	F27D302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F27D	F27D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F27D3	F27D3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Roll designs (10, 50, 80, 150, 210) for roller hearth furnaces operating at temperatures ranging from under 1200  DEG C to substantially higher are disclosed. A rotary mounted main roll body (12, 40, 52, 82, 212) may be provided with a plurality of spaced tires (16, 54, 84, 214) for contacting and transporting a charge carried by the roll (10, 50, 80, 150, 210). An internal coolant circulation system (14, 44, 56, 94, 230) is provided within the main roll body (12, 40, 52, 82, 212). Insulation (24, 100, 160, 220) may be provided around the main roll body (12, 40, 52, 82, 212).
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ITALIMPIANTI AMERICA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ITALIMPIANTI AMERICA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FACCO GIUSEPPE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FACCO GIUSEPPE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ROLLS FOR HIGH TEMPERATURE ROLLER HEARTH FURNACESBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThis invention relates to roll designs, specifically to rolls for high temperature roller hearth furnaces.2. Description of the Prior ArtIn low temperature applications, less than 1100° C, non-water cooled alloy rolls are normally successfully utilized. At temperatures between 1100-1200° C, rolls have been utilized for thin slabs where a water cooled shaft is equipped with a plurality of spaced tires welded to the shaft, wherein the roll is insulated with refractory clams.The problems encountered with these prior art high temperature rolls are refractory failure, which generates bowing of the shaft and failure of the tires. Following tire failure, it is difficult to repair the roll. Removing and rewelding a tire are difficult without distorting the main shaft. In addition, these prior art rolls were not designed to handle heavy loads.Additionally, at temperatures between 1100-1200° C, non-water cooled rollers have been used in some occasions; however, drawbacks exist because of the limited strength of material at that temperature (roll failure could occur if the rolls are stopped from rotating) . Also, at temperatures of about 1200° C, scale pickup starts becoming a problem.For temperatures above 1200° C, roll designs encounter several additional problems. At these higher temperatures, the tires encounter greater steel scale pickup problems and the insulation life is further reduced. Additionally, the tires may be subject to cracks due to thermal stresses and fatigue. 

 The present invention has the purpose of overcoming the drawbacks of the prior art.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONSeveral roll designs are included in this invention. The first design is for a roll having an application for temperatures up to 1200° C or more which maintains good insulation surrounding the roll and provides an easily maintained roll. The roll includes a rotary mounted main roll body with internal coolant circulation. A plurality of tires is positioned at spaced locations along the main roll body for contacting and supporting a charge to be carried by the roll. A plurality of insulation shells surrounding the main roll body is provided with each insulation shell positioned adjacent one of the tires. Each of the insulation shells includes an inner metal shell, an intermediate layer of refractory insulation and an outer layer of hard material which is resistant to mechanical and thermal shock.A second roll design of the present
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I CLAIM:
1. A roll for a high temperature roller hearth furnace, said roll comprising: a) a main roll body with internal coolant circulation; b) a plurality of removable tires positioned at spaced locations along said main roll body for contacting and supporting a charge to be carried by said roll; and c) a plurality of removable insulation shells surrounding said main roll body with each insulation shell positioned adjacent one of said tires, wherein each said insulation shell includes i) an inner metal shell; ii) an intermediate layer of refractory material; and iϋ) an outer layer of hard material which is resistant to mechanical and thermal shock.
2. The roll of claim 1 wherein said main roll body includes an internal roll body which is separated by a gap from an external roll body which has a thickness less than the thickness of said internal roll body, wherein said coolant circulation flows through said gap, and wherein said tires have serrations on the peripheral edges of said tires to minimize thermal stresses.
3. The roll of claim 1 wherein said main roll body includes keys which engage key cuts provided in said tires to force said tires to rotate with said main roll body, and wherein said main roll body includes keys which engage key cuts provided in said insulation shells to force each said insulation shell to turn with said roll body.
4. A roll for a high temperature roller hearth furnace, said roll comprising: 


 a) a heat resistant roll body having a hollow interior; b) a cooling pipe positioned in said roll body interior; and c) a coolant supply nonrotatably mounted within said roll body and coupled to said cooling pipe wherein in use a temperature gradient is achieved between the furnace temperature and the coolant temperature such that said roll body will work at a temperature lower than the furnace temperature.
5. A roll for a roller hearth furnace, said roll comprising: a) a rotary mounted main roll body provided with coolant circulation passages therein; b) a plurality of tires positioned at spaced locations along said main roll body for contacting and supporting a charge to be carried by said roll, with each said tire including a passage extending therethrough which cooperates with said coolant passages to allow coolant to flow through said main roll body and said tires; and c) stationary insulation surrounding said main roll body and provided with a plurality of openings such that said tires extend through said openings above said insulation.
6. The roll of claim 5 wherein said insulation comprises: a bottom portion including a liquid cooled base, a hollow shell adjacent said main roll body with a plurality of grooves provided in said shell to accommodate said plurality of tires and openings in said grooves for discharge of scale; and a top portion including a plurality of insulated tiles which surround said main roll body adjacent said tires with said openings being provided between adjacent insulation tiles. 


 7. A roll for a high temperature roller hearth furnace, said roll comprising: a) a main roll body; b) a plurality of removable tires positioned at spaced locations along said main roll body for contacting and supporting a charge to be carried by said roll, each said tire including a plurality of bent legs, wherein said bent legs of each said tire extend alternately in opposite directions; and c) at least one ring positioned at an extremity of said bent legs to couple each said tire to said main roll body.
8. A roll for a roller hearth furnace, said roll comprising: a) a rotary mounted main roll body; b) a plurality of tires positioned at spaced locations along said main roll body for contacting and supporting a charge to be carried by said roll, each said tire including coolant passages therein allowing coolant to flow through said tires; c) insulation surrounding said main roll body at positions between said tires; and d) coolant piping means coupled to said tire coolant passages and extending between adjacent said tires for supplying coolant to said tires.
9. The roll of claim 8 wherein said insulation is attached to said main roll body and said coolant piping means is embedded within said insulation, and each said tire coolant passage includes a circumferential passage extending substantially around said tire and a baffle positioned between said inlet opening and said outlet opening substantially blocking said circumferential passage. 


 10. A roll for a roller hearth furnace, said roll comprising: a) a rotary mounted main roll body provided with coolant circulation passages therein; b) a plurality of tires positioned at spaced locations along said main roll body for contacting and supporting a charge to be carried by said roll, with each said tire including a passage extending therethrough which cooperates with said coolant passages to allow coolant to flow through said main roll body and said tires; and c) insulation surrounding said main roll body in between said tires, said insulation attached to said main roll body. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
