<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658612</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Polysaccharide containing fluids having enhanced thermal stability
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C09K808	C09K810	C09K802	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C09K	C09K	C09K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C09K8	C09K8	C09K8	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides (1) a method of increasing the thermal stability of an 
aqueous polysaccharide-containing fluid by adding thereto magnesia and a thiosulfate salt; 

(2) a drilling, completion, or workover fluid comprising an aqueous liquid, a water soluble 
polysaccharide, magnesia, and a thiosulfate salt; and (3) an additive for increasing the 

thermal stability of an aqueous polysaccharide-containing fluid which comprises magnesia 
and a thiosulfate salt in a weight ratio of magnesia to thiosulfate salt from about 0.15/1 

to about 6.67/1. 
The preferred magnesia has an activity index less than 100, most preferably less 
than 50. The preferred thiosulfate salt is sodium thiosulfate. The preferred 

polysaccharide is selected from the group consisting of xanthan gum, epichlorohydrin 
crosslinked starch, carboxymethyl cellulose, and mixtures thereof. The preferred aqueous 

liquid is a saturated sodium chloride solution. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS UNITED CHEMICAL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS UNITED CHEMICAL COMPANY, LLC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOBSON JAMES W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOBSON, JAMES W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention pertains to aqueous fluids containing water soluble polysaccharides
such as oil and gas well drilling fluids, completion fluids, workover fluids, and well
servicing fluids.The use of fluids (and their compositions, characteristics, and functions) during the
drilling of wells is well known. See for example the book "Composition and Properties
of Oil Well Drilling Fluids," Fourth Edition, 1980, George R. Gray et al., Gulf Publishing
Co., or Third Edition, 1963, Walter F. Rogers.The use of fluids for conducting various operations in the boreholes of
subterranean oil and gas wells which contact a producing formation are well known.
Thus drill-in fluids are utilized when initially drilling into producing formations.
Completion fluids are utilized when conducting various completion operations in the
producing formations. Workover fluids are utilized when conducting workover operations
of previously completed wells.One of the most important functions of these fluids is to seal off the face of the
wellbore so that the fluid is not lost to the formation. Ideally this is accomplished by
depositing a filter cake of the solids in the fluid over the surface of the borehole without
any loss of solids to the formation. In other words, the solids in the fluid bridge over the
formation pores rather than permanently plugging the pores. Many clay-free fluids have been proposed for contacting the producing zone of oil
and gas wells. See for example the following U.S. patents: Jackson et al. U.S. Pat. No.
3,785,438; Alexander U.S. Pat. No. 3,872,018; Fischer et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3,882,029;
Walker U.S. Pat. No. 3,956,141; Smithey U.S. Pat. No. 3,986,964; Jackson et al. U.S. Pat.
No. 4,003,838; Mondshine U.S. Pat. No. 4,175,042; Mondshine U.S. Pat. No. 4,186,803;
Mondshine U.S. Pat. No. 4,369,843; Mondshine U.S. Pat. No. 4,620,596; and Dobson,
Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4,822,500.These fluids generally contain polymeric viscosifiers such as certain
polysaccharides or polysaccharide derivatives, polymeric fluid loss control additives such
as lignosulfonates, polysaccharides or polysaccharide derivatives, and bridging solids.It is well known that the polysaccharides are degraded by heat and agitation. Thus
starch breaks down rapidly at temperatures of 93°C (200°F) and above, guar gum breaks
down rapidly at temperatures above 65.5°C (150°F). The thermal degradation of
carboxymethyl cellulose is accelerated as temperature approaches 150°C (300°F). As the
polysaccharides degrade, the properties of the fluids containing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims for the following Contracting States : DE, FR, GB, NL
A method of increasing the thermal stability of a fluid comprising a saturated
aqueous sodium chloride solution and at least one water soluble polysaccharide selected

from starch derivatives, biopolymers, and mixtures thereof dispersed therein, which
comprises adding to the fluid magnesia and a thiosulfate salt selected from sodium

thiosulfate, ammonium thiosulfate, potassium thiosulfate, calcium thiosulfate,
magnesium thiosulfate, ferrous thiosulfate, and mixtures thereof, wherein the

concentration of magnesia is from 4.279 to 28.53 kg/m
3
 (1.5 to 10 pounds per 42 gallon
barrel) of fluid and wherein the concentration of thiosulfate salt is from 4.279 to 28.53

kg/m
3
 (1.5 to 10 pound per 42 gallon barrel) of fluid so as to synergistically increase the
thermal stability of the fluid.
The method of Claim 1 wherein the magnesia has an activity index less than 100
seconds, as determined according to the test set out at pages 7 to 8 herein, and wherein

the thiosulfate salt is sodium thiosulfate.
The method of Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein the polysaccharide is selected from
ca
rboxymethyl starch, hydroxyethyl starch, hydroxypropyl starch, epichlorohydrin
crosslinked hydroxypropyl starch, xanthan gum, gellan gum, welan gum, and mixtures

thereof.
The method of Claim 1 wherein the polysaccharide is selected from xanthan
gum, epichlorohydrin crosslinked hydroxypropyl starch, and mixtures thereof, wherein

the magnesia has an activity index less than 50 seconds and wherein the thiosulfate salt
is sodium thiosulfate.
The method of any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein the fluid further comprises
carboxymethylcellulose.
An aqueous fluid selected from drilling fluids, completion fluids, and workover
fluids which comprises a saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution, a water soluble

polysaccharide selected from starch derivatives, biopolymers, and mixtures thereof, 
magnesia and a thiosulfate salt, wherein the concentration of each of the magnesia and

thiosulfate salt is from 4.279 to 28.53 kg/m
3
 (1.5 to 10 pounds per 42 gallon barrel).
The fluid of Claim 6 wherein the thiosulfate salt is selected from sodium
thiosulfate, ammonium thiosulfate, potassium thiosulfate, calcium thiosulfate,

magnesium thiosulfate, and mixtures thereof, and wherein the magnesia has an activity
index less than 50 seconds.
The fluid of Claim 6 or Claim 7 wherein the polysaccharide is selected from
carboxymethyl starch, hydroxyethyl starch, hydroxypropyl starch, epichlorohydrin

crosslinked hydroxypropyl starch, xanthan gum, gellan gum, welan gum, and mixtures
thereof.
The fluid of Claim 7 wherein the thiosulfate salt is sodium thiosulfate, and
wherein the polysaccaride is selected from xanthan gum, epichlorohydrin crosslinked

hydroxypropyl starch, and mixtures thereof.
The fluid of any one of Claims 6 to 9 further comprising
carboxymethylcellulose.
An additive for increasing the thermal stability of an aqueous fluid comprising a
saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution and a water soluble polysaccharide selected

from starch derivatives, biopolymers, and mixtures thereof, which additive comprises
magnesia and a thiosulfate salt selected from sodium thiosulfate, ammonium thiosulfate,

potassium thiosulfate, calcium thiosulfate, magnesium thiosulfate, ferrous thiosulfate,
and mixtures thereof, wherein the weight ration of magnesia to thiosulfate salt is from

0.8/1 to 6.67/1.
The additive of Claim 11 wherein the magnesia has an activity index less than
50 seconds and wherein the thiosulfate salt is sodium thiosulfate.
The additive of Claim 11 or 12 wherein the weight ratio of magnesia to sodium
thiosulfate is from 0.8/1 to 5/1.
Claims for the following Contracting States : DK, IT
A method of increasing the thermal stability of a fluid comprising an aqueous
liquid and at least one water soluble polysaccharide dispersed therein, which comprises

adding to the fluid magnesia and a thiosulfate salt selected from sodium thiosulfate,
ammonium thiosulfate, potassium thiosulfate, calcium thiosulfate, magnesium

thiosulfate, ferrous thiosulfate, and mixtures thereof, wherein the concentration of
magnesia is from 4.279 to 28.53 kg/m
3
 (1.5 to 10 pounds per 42 gallon barrel) of fluid
and wherein the concentration of thiosulfate salt is from 4.279 to 28.53 kg/m
3
 (1.5 to 10
pound per 42 gallon barrel) of fluid so as to synergistically increase the thermal stability

of the fluid.
The method of Claim 1 wherein the magnesia has an activity index less than 100
seconds, as determined according to the test set out at pages 7 to 8 herein, and wherein

the thiosulfate salt is sodium thiosulfate.
The method of Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein the aqueous liquid is a saturated
sodium chloride solution, and wherein at least one polysaccharide is selected from

carboxymethyl cellulose, hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose, methyl
cellulose, carboxymethyl starch, hydroxyethyl starch, hydroxypropyl starch,

epichlorohydrin crosslinked hydroxypropyl starch, xanthan gum, gellan gum, welan
gum, and mixtures thereof.
The method of Claim 1 wherein the aqueous liquid is a saturated sodium
chloride solution, wherein at least one polysaccharide is selected from xanthan gum,

epichlorohydrin crosslinked hydroxypropyl starch, and mixtures thereof, wherein the
magnesia has an activity index less than 50 seconds and wherein the thiosulfate salt is

sodium thiosulfate.
An aqueous fluid selected from drilling fluids, completion fluids, and workover
fluids which comprises an aqueous liquid, a water soluble polysaccharide, magnesia and

a thiosulfate salt, wherein the concentration of each of the magnesia and thiosulfate salt
are from 4.279 to 28.53 kg/m
3
 (1.5 to 10 pounds per 42 gallon barrel). 
The fluid of Claim 5 wherein the thiosulfate salt is selected from sodium
thiosulfate, ammonium thiosulfate, potassium thiosulfate, calcium thiosulfate,

magnesium thiosulfate, and mixtures thereof, and wherein the magnesia has an activity
index less than 50 seconds.
The fluid of Claim 5 or Claim 6 wherein the polysaccharide is selected from
carboxymethyl cellulose, hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose, methyl

cellulose, carboxymethyl starch, hydroxyethyl starch, hydroxypropyl starch,
epichlorohydrin crosslinked hydroxypropyl starch, xanthan gum, gellan gum, welan

gum, and mixtures thereof.
The fluid of Claim 6 wherein the aqueous liquid is a saturated solution of
sodium chloride and the thiosulfate salt is sodium thiosulfate, and wherein the

polysaccaride is selected from xanthan gum, epichlorohydrin crosslinked hydroxypropyl
starch, carboxymethyl cellulose and mixtures thereof.
An additive for increasing the thermal stability of an aqueous fluid comprising
an aqueous liquid and a water soluble polysaccharide, which additive comprises

magnesia and a thiosulfate salt selected from sodium thiosulfate, ammonium thiosulfate,
potassium thiosulfate, calcium thiosulfate, magnesium thiosulfate, ferrous thiosulfate,

and mixtures thereof, wherein the weight ration of magnesia to thiosulfate salt is from
0.15/1 to 6.67/1.
The additive of Claim 9 wherein the magnesia has an activity index less than 50
seconds and wherein the thiosulfate salt is sodium thiosulfate.
The additive of Claim 9 or 10 wherein the weight ratio of magnesia to sodium
thiosulfate is from 0.8/1 to 5/1.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
