<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610242</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LOGIC LEVEL SHIFTER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03K1900	H03K1900	H03K190185	H03K190185	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VLSI TECHNOLOGY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VLSI TECHNOLOGY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMMONS LAURA ELISABETH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ULMER RICHARD W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WARD JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMMONS, LAURA, ELISABETH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ULMER, RICHARD, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WARD, JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 LOGIC LEVEL SHIFTERDescriptionTechnical FieldThis invention relates generally to digital circuitry, and more particularly to logic level shifters for digital circuitry.Background ArtPortable computers are becoming very popular because they are easy to transport, can be used virtually anywhere, and because they are approaching the computing power of their desk-top brethren. Portable computers are also becoming smaller and lighter in weight, which generally means that the batteries which power them are also becoming smaller. As a result, the new generation of small, light, but powerful portable computers require low-power, yet high speed, circuitry.Because portable computers are usually battery powered, it is very important that they draw as little power as possible. In consequence, the circuitry of virtually all portable computers is implemented in complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) technology, which is noted for its low power requirements. Also, the microprocessor or controller at the heart of the portable computer often operates internally on a lower voltage than the rest of the computer's circuitry to reduce its static power consumption. Unfortunately, lowering the voltage also reduces the speed at which the microprocessor or controller operates, which means that other portions of the circuitry must not unduly add to the delay of signals being produced by the microprocessor or controller.In Fig. 1, a microprocessor or controller 10 can utilize an internal or '"core" operating voltage of three volts d.c. but must drive external or "ring" logic at 

 standard ISA (Industry Standard Architecture) voltages of about five volts d.c. This requires a logic level shifter 12 which couples the core logic to a pad driver 14 and, from there, to a lead 16 of the microprocessor or controller 10. The logic level shifter 12 must be capable providing sufficient current to the pad driver 14 (typically 20 - 30 milliamperes). The pad driver 14 usually drives a capacitive load CL of about 200 picofarads.A prior art logic level shifter 12' is illustrated in Fig.2. The channel of a p- channel metal oxide field effect transistor (MOSFET) 18 and the channel of a n- channel MOSFET 20 are coupled together in a typical series CMOS configuration between a source of the ring voltage Vr and ground. The gates of the MOSFETS18 and 20 are coupled to the input of the logic level shifter 12', and the node 22 between the channels of the MOSFETS is coupled to the pad driver 14. Typically, the relative size of the MOSFETS are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Claims
1. A logic level shifter comprising: a first stage (24) having a first input (28) and a first output (30), wherein a voltage level at said first input can range from a reference voltage to a first voltage, said first stage being coupled to a source of a second voltage which is greater than said first voltage, and wherein a voltage level at said first output is responsive to said voltage level at said first input and can range from said reference voltage to a lower voltage which is less than said first first voltage; and a second stage (26) having a second input (32) and a second output (34), said second input being coupled to said first output of said first stage, said second stage being further coupled to a source of said second voltage, wherein a voltage level at said second output is responsive to said voltage level at said first output and can range from said reference voltage to said second voltage.
2. A logic level shifter as recited in claim 1 further comprising feedback means (48) responsive to said voltage level at said second output and operative to reduce the static current through at least one of said first and second stages.
3. A logic level shifter as recited in claim 1 wherein said first voltage is about three volts d.c. and wherein said second voltage is about five volts d.c.
4. A logic level shifter as recited in claim 1 wherein said first stage is further coupled to a source of said first voltage. 


 5. A logic level shifter as recited in claim 4 wherein said first stage includes: a first transistor means (36) of a first polarity type coupled at a first node to a second transistor means (38) of a second polarity type, said first transistor means and said second transistor means being coupled in series between said source of said first voltage and said reference voltage, wherein the gates of said first transistor means and said second transistor means are coupled to said first input; and a third transistor means (40) of said second polarity type coupled at a second node (46) to a fourth transistor means (42) of said second polarity type, said third transistor means and said fourth transistor means being coupled in series between said second voltage and said reference voltage, wherein a gate of said third transistor means is coupled to said first node, a gate of said fourth transistor means is coupled to said first input, and wherein said second node is coupled to said first output.
6. A logic level shifter as recited in claim 5 wherein said second stage includes: a fifth transistor means (48) of said first polarity type coupled between said source of said second voltage and said second input; and a sixth transistor means (50) of said first polarity type coupled at a third node (54) to a seventh transistor (52) of said second polarity type, wherein said sixth transistor means and said seventh transistor means are coupled in series between said source of said second voltage and said reference voltage, wherein gates of said sixth transistor means and said seventh transistor means are coupled to said second input; and wherein said third node is coupled to said second output and to a gate of said fifth transistor means. 


 7. A logic level shifter as recited in claim 1 wherein said second stage includes: a first transistor means (48) of a first polarity type coupled between said source of said second voltage and said second input; and a second transistor means (50) of said first polarity type coupled at a node
(54) to a third transistor (52) of a second polarity type, wherein said second transistor means and said third transistor means are coupled in series between said source of said second voltage and said reference voltage, wherein gates of said second transistor means and said third transistor means are coupled to said second input; and wherein said node is coupled to said second output and to a gate of said first transistor means.
8. A logic level shifter as recited in claim 1 wherein said first output of said first stage is an inversion of said first input of said first stage.
9. A logic level shifter as recited in claim 8 wherein said second output of said second stage is an inversion of said second input of said second stage.
10. A logic level shifter as recited in claim 1 wherein said second output of said second stage is an inversion of said second input of said second stage.
11. A logic level shifter comprising: power supply means operative to develop a ring logic voltage; input means (28) powered by said ring logic voltage and responsive to a first range of voltages varying between ground and a core logic voltage which is less than said ring logic voltage; output means (34) powered by said ring logic voltage and operative to develop a second range of voltages varying between ground and said ring logic voltage in response to a voltage level at said input means; and 


 feedback means (48) responsive to said second range of voltages and operative to reduce the static current of said logic level shifter.
12. A logic level shifter as recited in claim 11 wherein said power supply means further develops a core logic voltage, said input means being further powered by said core logic voltage, wherein said input means develops a lower range of voltages varying between ground and a lower voltage which is less than said core logic voltage in response to said voltage level at said input means, and wherein said output means is responsive to said lower range of voltages.
13. A logic level shifter as recited in claim 11 wherein said ring logic voltage is about five volts d.c.
14. A logic level shifter as recited in claim 12 wherein said ring logic voltage is about five volts d.c. and said core logic voltage is about three volts d.c.
15. A logic level shifter as recited in claim 14 wherein said lower voltage is about 1.5 - 2.5 volts d.c.
16. A logic level shifter as recited in claim 12 wherein said lower range of voltages is an inversion of said first range of voltages.
17. A logic level shifter as recited in claim 16 wherein said second range of voltages is an inversion of said lower range of voltages.
18. A logic level shifter as recited in claim 12 wherein said second range of voltages is an inversion of said lower range of voltages. 


 19. A method for shifting logic levels comprising: shifting a first range of voltages which varies from a reference voltage to a first voltage downwardly to a lower range of voltages which varies from said reference voltage to a lower voltage which is greater than said first voltage; and shifting said lower range of voltages upwardly to a second range of voltages which varies from said reference voltage to a second voltage which is greater than said lower voltage.
20. A method for shifting logic levels as recited in claim 19 further comprising the step of inverting said first range of voltages to develop said lower range of voltages.
21. A method for shifting logic levels as recited in claim 20 further comprising the step of inverting said lower range of voltages to develop said second range of voltages.
22. A method for shifting logic levels as recited in claim 19 further comprising the step of inverting said lower range of voltages to develop said second range of voltages.
23. A method for shifting logic levels as recited in claim 19 further comprising sensing said second range of voltages and reducing the static current in response thereto.
24. A method for shifting logic levels as recited in claim 19 wherein said reference voltage is at about ground potential, said first voltage is about three volts and said second voltage is about five volts. 


 25. A method for shifting logic levels as recited in claim 24 wherein said lower voltage is about 1.5 to 2.5 volts.
26. A logic level shifter comprising: a first stage (24) having a first signal input (28), a first signal output (30), and a first power input; a second stage (26) having a second signal input (32), a second signal output (34), and a second power input, where said second signal input is coupled to said first signal output, said second signal output being responsive to said first signal input; and feedback means (48) having an input coupled to said second signal output and an output coupled to at least one of said first stage and said second stage to reduce the static current in said logic level shifter.
27. A logic level shifter as recited in claim 26 wherein said first power input and said second power input are of approximately the same voltage, and wherein said first stage further comprises a third power input.
28. A logic level shifter as recited in claim 27 wherein said third power input is of approximately the same voltage as said first power input and said second power input.
29. A logic level shifter as recited in claim 28 wherein said third power input is of a lower voltage than said first power input and said second power input. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
