<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613653</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for non-invasive measurement of oxygen saturation
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B51495	G01N2147	A61B51455	A61B50448	A61B500	G01N2149	A61B5145	A61B500	A61B5145	A61B50402	A61B51464	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	G01N	A61B	A61B	A61B	G01N	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	G01N21	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	G01N21	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for noninvasive measurement of oxygen saturation from the 
intensity of electromagnetic waves of at least two different wavelengths 

reflected by or transmitted through human tissue, comprises: 

(1) conversion means converting the intensity of the received 
electromagnetic waves into electrical signals, 
(2) autocorrelation means for performing an autocorrelation on the 
electrical signals, 
(3) frequency detection means for detection of the frequency of the 
autocorrelation function, 
(4) frequency adaptation means to adapt the frequency of a predefined 
signal to the frequency of the autocorrelation function, 
(5) cross correlation means performing a cross correlation between the 
specific electrical signal and the predefined signal, 
(6) detection means detecting the maximum amplitude of the cross-correlation 
function, and 
(7) oxygen saturation calculation means calculating oxygen saturation 
from the maximum amplitude. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT PACKARD GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT-PACKARD GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SECKER HERBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SECKER, HERBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method for performing non-invasive 
measurements of oxygen saturation based on the reflection technique. Oxygen saturation is a clinically very relevant parameter to assess the condition 
of a patient. Particularly in the operating room, the oxygen saturation of the 
blood gives an indication of the patient's condition, its supply with oxygen and 
other physiological factors. One possibility to obtain a very precise value of the patient's oxygen saturation 
is to take a blood sample and analyze it in a blood gas analyzer. Despite the 
high precision of this method, it is an invasive technique and this means that 
it cannot performed frequently, i.e. does not allow continuous monitoring. 
Therefore, significant changes in the oxygen saturation value may be missed. 
Last not least, it is understood that an invasive technique is not the preferred 
way to monitor a patient. It is therefore highly desirable to measure oxygen saturation non-invasively. 
This can be achieved by a technique called oximetry. An oximeter usually comprises two or more light sources of different wave 
length. The light is irradiated on human flesh, and either the intensity of the 
light transmitted through the flesh, or the intensity of the reflected light is 
measured. In more general terms, "light" does not only mean electromagnetic 
waves in the visible spectrum. For example, the most common oximeters use  
 
one wavelength in the visible spectrum and another wavelength in the infrared 
spectrum. The light transmitted or reflected by human flesh is attenuated according to 
Lambert-Beer's law, i.e. 
I = I0e-Ecl 
wherein I represents the intensity of the received light, I0 the intensity of the 
incident light, E the molecular extinction coefficient, c the concentration of the 
absorbing species and l the thickness of the absorbing layer, i.e. the length of 
the light path through tissue. If we assume that human tissue contains components with constant characteristics 
over time - such as bones, muscles etc. -, and components with time-varying 
characteristics - i.e. blood -, equation (1) yields 
In (1IACIDC) = - Ec l(t)  
wherein IDC represents a component constant over time (caused by absorbers 
of constant absorbance), IAC represents the time-varying component (caused by 
blood) and l(t) represents the variation in thickness caused by arterial 
pulsations. This equation contains two unknown values, c and l(t). As oxygen saturation is defined as the quotient of the concentration of 
oxyhemoglobin
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Method for calculating oxygen saturation from the 
intensity of electromagnetic waves of at least two 

different wavelengths reflected by or transmitted 
through human tissue, comprising the following steps: 


(1.1) converting the intensities of the received 
electromagnetic waves into electrical signals, 
(1.2) performing an autocorrelation (84,84') on at 
least one specific of said electrical signals, 
(1.3) detecting the frequency (86,86') of said specific 
electrical signal from the autocorrelation 

function, 
(1.4) performing a cross-correlation (89,89') between 
said specific electrical signal and a predefined 

signal of substantially the same frequency, 
(1.5) detecting the maximum amplitude of said cross-correlation 
function, 
(1.6) using said maximum amplitude (90,90') to 
calculate oxygen saturation. 
Method according to claim 1, comprising the steps of: 

(2.3a) entering the place of application of a sensor, 
and 
(2.3b) selecting said predefined signal from a set of 
predefined signals in dependency of the place of 

application of said sensor. 
Method according to claim 1, comprising the steps of: 

(3.3a) comparing said specific electrical signal (93) 
with sets of pattern signals representative of 

certain places of application at the human body 
or representative of certain tissue 

characteristics, 
(3.3b) selecting the pattern signal (95) comprising most 
common characteristics with said specific 

electrical signal as predefined signal. 
Method according to claim 3, wherein the comparison 
between said specific electrical signal and said sets of 

pattern signals comprises sequential cross-correlations 
with each pattern signal in said set of pattern signals. 
Method according to at least one of claims 1 - 4, 
wherein a general predefined signal is compressed or 

expanded (88,93) such that it becomes a predefined 
signal of the frequency of said specific electrical 

signal. 
Method 
according to claim 1, comprising the following step 

for measuring the heart rate: 
detecting the heart rate (87) as the frequency of 

said specific electrical signal (86) from the 
autocorrelation function.  

 
Apparatus for noninvasive measurement of oxygen 
saturation from the intensity of electromagnetic waves 

of at least two different wavelengths reflected by or 
transmitted through human tissue, comprising: 


(7.1) conversion means (43-45) converting the intensity 
of the received electromagnetic waves into 

electrical signals, 
(7.2) autocorrelation means (47,48,84,84') for 
performing an autocorrelation on at least a 

specific one of said electrical signals, 
(7.3) frequency detection means (47,48,86,86') for 
detection of the frequency of the autocorrelation 

function, 
(7.4) frequency adaptation means (47,48,88,88') to 
adapt the frequency of a predefined signal to the 

frequency of the autocorrelation function, 
(7.5) cross correlation means (47,48,89,89') performing 
a cross correlation between said specific 

electrical signal and said predefined signal, 
(7.6) detection means (47,48,90,90') detecting the 
maximum amplitude of said cross-correlation 

function, and 
(7.7) oxygen saturation calculation means calculating 
oxygen saturation from said maximum amplitude. 
Apparatus according to claim 7, comprising: 

(8.1) sensor application input means, and 
(8.2) predefined signal selection means operating in  
 

dependency of a sensor application entered via 
said sensor application input means to select 

said predefined signal from a set of predefined 
signals. 
Apparatus according to claim 7, comprising: 

(9.1) pattern signal comparison means (47,48,93) 

comparing said specific electrical signal with 
sets of pattern signals representative of certain 

places of application at the human body or 
representative of certain tissue characteristics, 

and 
(9.2) predefined signal selection means (47,48,95) 
selecting the set comprising most common 

characteristics with said electrical signal as 
predefined signal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
