<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645762</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Rotary inertia latch for latching a rotary actuator in a disk drive.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B2112	G11B2112	G11B2122	G11B2122	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B21	G11B21	G11B21	G11B21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A shock resistant disk drive has a balanced rotary actuator (5) and a 
disk assembly (3) rotatably mounted to its base (1). The rotary actuator (5) is 

latched with its transducer (5c) in a parked position (Fig. 1) relative to the disk 
assembly (3), by a monostable balanced rotary inertia latch (9a), also rotatably 

mounted to the base (1), which in its monostable latched position (Fig. 1) is 
torque coupled in torque opposition (5e, 9a2) to said rotary actuator (5) in 

parked position (Fig. 1). The balanced rotary actuator (5) and the balanced 
rotary inertia latch (9a), being rotatably mounted to the base, respond to rotary 

shock (F
s
) in the same rotational sense. The moment of inertia of the balanced 
rotary inertia latch (9a) and the ratio of the opposed torque moment arms (5e, 

9a2) in the torque couple are chosen so that in the presence of rotary shock (F
s
) 
on said base (1), rotation of said balanced rotary actuator (5) relative to said 

base (1) and rotation of said balanced rotary inertia latch (9a) relative to said 
base (1), is zero. A permanent magnet bias (N,S) is employed to retain the 

balanced rotary inertia latch (9a) in monostable latched position (Fig. 1). When 
the disk assembly (3) is at operating speed and the transducer (5c) is stabilized 

in flight on the disk air bearing, the balanced rotary inertia latch (9a) is 
electromagnetically biased (9b) to its unlatched position (Fig. 2, dotted lines), in 

which position the inertia latch (9a) is clear of the balanced rotary actuator (5, 
5e). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT PACKARD CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MASTACHE MARK D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MASTACHE, MARK D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a shock resistant rotary actuator type of disk 
drive having a balanced rotary inertia latch for latching the rotary actuator in a 
parked position relative to the disk. Numerous efforts have been made to devise satisfactory actuator 
latches for disk drives. These include air vane operated actuator latches and 
solenoid operated actuator latches. These actuator latches are usually 
monostable latches which have a fixed force bias applied which holds the latch 
in the latched position. The fixed force bias is applied, in typical cases, by a 
spring or a permanent magnet. Thus, at any time the rotary actuator is moved 
to its parked position, a latch element engages the rotary actuator to hold it in 
the locked position. Typical latch designs are not shock resistant and require a 
substantial biasing force to hold the latch element in latched position in the 
presence of shock. To release such a latch it is necessary to employ an equally 
strong releasing force. When this releasing force is provided by electromagnetic 
means, the electrical energy requirement during hours of operation of the drive, 
is significant. To minimize electrical energy requirements, attempts have been made 
employing air vanes disposed between the disks to obtain releasing forces of 
sufficient magnitude to release the latch element, at least when the disks are at 
their operating speed. Air vane operated latch mechanisms are usually 
unsatisfactory in environments in which the disk drive is subject to shock and/or 
is of small form factor. Patentees such as Dimmick et al, U.S. Patent 4,538,193, Westwood, 
U.S. Patent 4,647,997, Campbell, U.S. Patent 4,692,829 and Mastache, U.S. 
Patent 5,036,416, utilize air flow moving with the disks between the disks to 
operate air vanes on fixed force biased latches, to release the latches, as the 
disks accelerate to operational speeds in rotation.  Patentees such as Hattori et al, U.S. Patent 4,706,142 and Chang, 
U.S. Patent 4,796,131 employ a solenoid to withdraw the latch member such 
as a pin or an arm to release the actuator from latched position. The patentees Pollard et al, U.S. Patent 5,012,372 present the 
mechanical details of an actuator latch mechanism, in which a stop pin on the 
actuator is trapped between a crash stop face and a confronting face on a latch 
arm, the latch arm being movable to engage and release the stop pin. The patentees Kelsic et al, U.S. Patent 5,023,736 describe an 
actuator or carriage latch which, like Pollard et al, is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A disk drive, comprising: 

a. a support (1); 
b. a disk assembly (3) rotatably mounted to said support (1) for 
rotation 
about a disk axis (3c); 
c. a balanced rotary actuator arm assembly (5) rotatably mounted 
to said support (1) for rotation about an actuator axis (5d) and disposed in 

parked position (Fig. 1) relative to said disk assembly (3); 
d. a balanced rotary inertia latch (9a) rotatably mounted to said 
support for rotation about a latch axis (9a1) from a latched position (Fig. 1), 

and 
e. means for mechanically coupling (5e, 9a2) said balanced rotary 
inertia latch, when in latched position, to said balanced rotary actuator arm 

assembly (5), when in parked position (Fig. 1), so that in the presence of 
angular acceleration (Fs) and rotation of said support (1), the inertial force of 

said balanced rotary actuator arm (assembly 5) acting in said means for 
mechanically coupling (5e) is opposed and balanced by the inertial force of 

said balanced rotary inertial latch (9a) acting in said means for mechanically 
coupling (5e, 9a2), forcing said balanced rotary actuator arm assembly (5) 

and said balanced rotary inertia latch (9a) to rotate with said support (1) and 
thereby holding said balanced rotary actuator arm assembly (5) in parked 

position (Fig. 1). 
The disk drive according to claim 1, in which said means for 
mechanically coupling (5e) comprises: 


a. a torque arm (5e) on said balanced rotary actuator arm 
assembly (5) and a latch arm (9a2) on said balanced rotary inertia latch (9a), 

said torque arm (5e) and said latch arm (9a2) projecting toward each other, 
each having a bearing point (5e1, 9a23) thereon, the bearing points (5e1, 

9a23) being engaged, said latch arm (9a2) having a predetermined length 
between said latch axis (9a1) and the bearing point (9a23) thereon and said 

torque arm (5e) having a predetermined length between said actuator axis 
(5d) and the bearing point (5e1) thereon. 
The disk drive according to claim 2, in which: 

a. the moment of inertia of said balanced rotary inertia latch (9a) 
is proportional to the product of the moment of inertia of said balanced 

rotary actuator arm assembly (5) and the ratio of the length of the latch arm 
(9a2) to the length of the torque arm (5e). 
The invention according to claim 3, comprising: 

a. electromagnetic means (9b) for rotating said balanced rotary 
inertia latch (9a) about said latch axis (9a1) from said latched position (Fig. 

1) to an unlatched position (Fig. 2, dotted lines) in which position said latch 
arm (9a2) remains disengaged from said torque arm (5e) throughout the 

range of angular movement of said balanced rotary actuator arm assembly 
(5) about said actuator axis (5d). 
The disk drive according to claim 4, in which said balanced 
rotary inertia latch (9a) comprises: 


a. a control arm (9a3) connected to said latch arm (9a2) in a 
position substantially diametrically disposed of said latch arm (9a1) with 

respect to said latch axis (9a1), and 
b. a permanent magnet (N,S) mounted to said control arm (9a3) 
for biasing said balanced rotary inertia latch (9a) to latched position, (Fig. 1) 

said electromagnetic means (9b), when energized, producing an 
electromagnetic field linking said permanent magnet (N,S) and rotating said 

balanced rotary inertia latch (9a) to said unlatched position (Fig. 2, dotted 
lines). 
A disk drive, comprising: 

a. a support (1); 
b. a disk assembly (3) comprising a hub (3b) and at least one disk 
(3a) on said hub (3b); 
c. means (the disk hub 3b) for rotatably mounting said disk 
assembly (3) on said support (1) for rotation about a disk axis (3c); 
d. a balanced rotary actuator arm assembly (5) having a 
longitudinal axis (the dot dash centerline) and having a balance point (5d); 
e. means (5a) for mounting said balanced rotary actuator arm 
assembly to said support (1) for angular movement about an actuator axis 

(5d) through said balance point (5d), which actuator axis (5d) is substantially 
perpendicular to said longitudinal axis (the dot dash line), said balanced 

rotary actuator arm assembly (5) having a distal end; 
f. a transducer (5c) mounted on said distal end for scanning said 
disk (3a) as said balanced rotary actuator arm assembly (5) moves angularly 

about said actuator axis (5d), said balanced rotary actuator arm assembly (5) 
having a parked position (Fig. 1) about said actuator axis (5d) with said 

transducer (5c) engaging said disk adjacent said hub; 
g. a torque arm (5e) projecting from one side of said balanced 
rotary actuator arm assembly (5) has a bearing point (5e1) adjacent its distal 

end defining a torque moment arm between said actuator axis (5d) and said 
bearing point (5e1); 
h. a monostable inertia latch (9) including a balanced rotary inertia 
latch rotatably (9a) mounted on said support (1) for rotation about a latch 

axis (9a1) between a monostable latched position (Fig. 1) and an unlatched 
position (Fig. 2, dotted lines); 
i. said balanced rotary inertia latch (9a) comprising a latch arm 
(9a2) and a control arm (9a3) substantially diametrically disposed of said 

latch axis (9a1) and being rotatable about said latch axis (9a1) between a 
latched position (Fig. 1) and an unlatched position (Fig. 2, dotted lines), 

when said balanced rotary actuator arm assembly (5) is in said parked 
position (Fig. 1) and said balanced rotary inertia latch (9a) is in said latched 

position (Fig. 1), said latch arm (9a2) engages said bearing point (5e1) of 
said torque arm (5e) at a bearing point (9a23) on said latch arm (9a2) which 

is displaced from said latch axis (9a1), defining a latch moment arm, said 
balanced rotary inertia latch (9a) having a moment of inertia proportional to 

the product of the moment of inertia of said balanced rotary actuator arm 
assembly (5) and the ratio of the length of the latch moment arm (9a1 to 

9a23) to the length of the torque moment arm (5d to 5e1) which, in the 
presence of angular acceleration (A) of said support (1) in a direction to 

cause relative displacement between said balanced rotary actuator arm 
assembly (5) and said disk assembly (3), produces a force (FL), acting on 

said torque arm (5e) where the bearing points (5e1, 9a23) are engaged, 
 

which is opposed to and at least equal to the torque arm force (FA) thereat 
during said angular acceleration (A). 
The disk drive according to claim 6, in which said monostable 
inertia latch (9) comprises: 


a. permanent magnet means (N,S) including said control arm 
(9a3) for basing said control arm (9a3) in a direction about said latch axis (9a1) 

to move said balanced rotary inertia latch (9a) to said latched position (Fig. 1). 
The disk drive according to claim 7, in which said permanent 
magnet means (N,S) comprises: 


a. a permanent magnet (N,S) on said control arm (9a3). 
The disk drive according to claim 7, comprising: 

a. a coil (9b) on said monostable inertia latch (9) having a 
magnetic field linking said control arm (9a3) for rotating said balanced rotary 

inertia latch (9a) to unlatched position (Fig. 2, dotted lines) when said coil 
(9b) is energized, said permanent magnet means (N,S) rotating said balanced 

rotary inertia latch (9a) to latched position (Fig. 1) when said coil (9b) is 

deenergized. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
