<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618742</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Watch pager system and communication protocol.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G04G100	G04G106	H04W8800	H04W8818	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G04G	G04G	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G04G1	G04G1	H04W88	H04W88	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Improved time-division multiplexed 
communication methods for a wide area paging system. 

One method appends check bits of a correction code to 
each data word and 
interleaves the words on 
transmission. A second method transmits multiple 

messages for one or more paging receivers in a single 
time slot. A third method increases the number of 

individual receivers that can be served by a single 
paging system. A fourth method increases the number of 

receivers that can be served by splitting the receivers 
in an area among several systems. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to communication systems 
and receivers and more particularly to wide area paging 
systems and portable paging receivers with low power 
consumption and method of data transmission to many 
receivers on a common channel. Prior paging systems generally provide two 
categories of coverage. Local area coverage is 
typically provided by transmitting a page simultaneously 
from one or more transmitters operating on a single 
frequency, covering all or a portion of a metropolitan 
area, to a recipient within the local area. Such 
coverage is obviously limited to the broadcast range of 
a local transmitter. Wide area coverage, encompassing 
several overlapping areas of a large metropolitan area 
or a number of non-overlapping metropolitan areas, is 
typically provided by transmitting a paging request to 
several transmitters via telecommunications and 
broadcasting the paging message from all transmitters to 
an intended recipient who may be anywhere within the 
wide coverage area. The foregoing approach to providing 
a wide area coverage is expensive and limited to a 
relatively small number of paging users. As paging 
traffic increases, the local and wide area coverage 
users begin to compete for paging channel space. Each 
wide area user occupies a portion of the available  
 
paging channel space for all of the page transmitters 
within the wide coverage area, displacing local coverage 
users of the same channel portion from each 
transmitter. It would be preferable to be able to 
provide wide area paging coverage without displacing 
local area coverage users of the same channel portion 
from all transmitters in the wide area. Another problem with present paging systems is 
their incompatibility. Local area coverage users may 
use one type of paging message encoding scheme for 
broadcasting a page to a page receiver and wide area 
coverage users may use a second type. A user who 
travels frequently must carry different page receivers 
to receive both types of messages. One solution to the 
incompatibility is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4,518,961 
to Davis et al. Davis et al. describes a single page 
receiver that stores the encoding schemes for a number 
of paging systems, encoding schemes such as POCSAG, the 
paging protocol for the British Post Office, and GGC, a 
paging protocol designed by Motorola, Inc. This is only 
a partial solution, however, because the number of 
encoding schemes greatly exceeds the number the Davis et 
al. receiver can store. Prior paging systems have also
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A time division multiplexed communication method 
comprising transmitting periodic frames of a first duration 

subdivided into subframes having time slots of a second 
duration, the subframes and time slots having unique 

identification numbers, assigning receivers an address that 
includes a unique number as one portion of the address and 

a subframe and time slot identification number as another 
portion, and encoding data into digital data packets 

bearing a time slot identification number, each packet 
having of substantially equal duration to a time slot, the 

method transmitting multiple messages for one or more 
receivers in a single time slot and being characterised by: 

   encoding format information within the data packet 
which alerts receivers assigned the time slot number as a 

portion of their address that more than one message is 
contained in the packet; 

   placing the messages in predetermined positions 
within the packet to be recognized by the alerted receivers 

as multiple messages; and 
   encoding within each message an address that 

corresponds to the unique numbered portion of the receiver 
address so that only the intended receiver reads the 

message. 
The method of claim 1 in which the message itself 
conta
ins format information indicating to the addressed 
receiver that the information therein is either an actual 

data message or is a pointer to a target time slot where 
the data message can be found. 
The method of claim 2 in which the actual data 
messages are transmitted as binary numbers corresponding to 

predetermined messages. 
A time division multiplexed communication apparatus 
for transmitting periodic frames of a first duration 

subdivided into subframes having time slots of a second 
duration, the subframes and time slots having unique 

identification numbers, the apparatus including receivers 
each assigned an address that includes a unique number as 

one portion of the address and a subframe and time slot 
identification number as another portion, the apparatus 

transmitting multiple messages for one or more receivers in 
a single time slot and being characterised by: 

   means for encoding data into digital packets 
bearing a time slot identification number, each packet 

being of substantially equal duration to a time slot; 
   means for encoding format information within the 

data packet which alerts receivers assigned the time slot 
number as a portion of their address that more than one 

message is contained in the packet; 
   means for placing the messages in predetermined 

positions within the packet to be recognized by the alerted 
receivers as multiple messages; and 

   means for encoding within each message an address 
that corresponds to the unique numbered portion of the 

receiver address so that only the intended receiver reads 
the message. 
The apparatus of claim 4 including means for 
formatting information within the message to tell the 

addressed receiver that the information therein is either 
an actual data message or is a pointer to a target time 

slot where the data message can be found. 
The method of claim 5 in which the formatting means 
transmits the actual data messages are transmitted as 

binary numbers corresponding to predetermined messages. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
