<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636762</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A turntable assembly with installed flexible guide ropes, particularly a turntable ladder of a fire-fighting vehicle
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A62C3304	E06C500	A62C3300	E06C504	B67D738	B67D740	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A62C	E06C	A62C	E06C	B67D	B67D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A62C33	E06C5	A62C33	E06C5	B67D7	B67D7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
2. In a turntable assembly (1), particularly a turntable ladder of a fire-fighting vehicle, 
having a ladder assembly and flexible guide ropes (8, 9) laid to the top of the ladder 

and which are passed over deflection units (10) attached to the end faces of ladder 
diagonals (7), at least one deflection unit (10) has a row of rollers (11) disposed 

substantially in a semicircle, via which a guide rope (8) is guided along the 
semicircular arc which determines the radius of deflection (R) of the guide rope (8), 

the rollers (11) having a radius (r) which is very small compared with the radius of 
deflection (R). By this means a very compact design of deflection unit for a plurality 

of guide ropes can be achieved, without the guide ropes being subjected to excessive 
bending. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a turntable assembly, particularly a turntable ladder of a fire-fighting 
vehicle, having a ladder assembly and flexible guide ropes disposed substantially one above 
another and laid to the top of the ladder, which guide ropes are passed over deflection units 
attached to the end faces of ladder diagonals. In a turntable assembly of the above-mentioned type, a double deflection of two guide ropes 
disposed one above the other is known, wherein two comparatively large single pulleys are 
seated one behind the other in a support bracket, which in turn is attached to the ladder 
diagonals. The single pulley facing the attachment point has a slightly larger diameter than 
the other, more remote single pulley, so that both guide ropes are situated comparatively 
closely one above the other but without contact. The large overall length of the deflection 
unit, which is determined by the two single pulleys disposed one behind the other, is a 
disadvantage. The known deflection unit is not suitable for use in a turntable assembly 
where space is very restricted. If, as in another constructional variant, both deflection 
pulleys are disposed not one behind the other but side by side in parallel, the space 
requirement increases in width. However, for turntable assemblies a narrow type of 
construction is exactly what matters, since the deflection units are situated in the region of 
the ladder diagonals of the ladder assemblies between the upper and lower beams and are 
also slightly inclined. The object of the present invention is to create a turntable assembly of the type cited initially 
in which the deflection unit is constructed in a very space-saving manner. The object forming the basis of the invention is achieved by the means cited in the 
characterising clause of claim 1. The subject of the invention is advantageously developed further by the features of subsidiary 
claims 2 to 13.  
 The essence of the invention is that at least one deflection unit is provided with a row of 
rollers disposed substantially in a semicircle or ellipse, via which a guide rope is guided along the 
semicircular or elliptical arc which determines the radius of deflection of the guide rope, the rollers 
having a radius which is very small compared with the radius of deflection. It is particularly advantageous if the small rollers are of substantially identical construction, 
wherein in an advantageous further development of the subject of the invention a profiled 
roller may be provided at each end
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A turntable assembly (1), particularly a turntable ladder of a fire-fighting vehicle, 
having a ladder assembly (2 to 6) and flexible guide ropes (8, 9) disposed 

substantially one above another and laid to the top of the ladder, which guide ropes 
are passed over deflection units (10) attached to the end faces of ladder diagonals (7), 

characterised in that at least one deflection unit (10) is provided with a row of rollers 
(11) disposed substantially in at least part of a semicircle or ellipse, via which a guide rope (8) is guided along 

the semicircular arc which determines the radius of deflection (R) of the guide rope 
(8), wherein the rollers (11) have a radius (r) which is small compared with the radius 

of deflection (R). 
A turntable assembly according to claim 1, characterised in that the rollers (11) are 
of substantially identical construction. 
A turntable assembly according to claim 1 or 2, characterised in that a profiled roller 
(12) is provided at each end of the semicircular arc, the radius of which roller 

corresponds to the radius (r) of the other rollers (11). 
A turntable assembly according to claim 2 or 3, characterised in that the rollers (11, 
12) are spaced apart at the same distance (d) from each other. 
A turntable assembly according to any one of claims 2 to 4, characterised in that the 
rollers (11, 12) are situated in close proximity to each other but do not contact each 

other. 
A turntable assembly according to any one of claims 1 to 5, characterised in that the 
rollers (11, 12) have axes of rotation which run parallel to each other. 
A turntable assembly according to any one of claims 1 to 6, characterised in that the 
deflection unit (10) comprises a single central deflection pulley (13), which is large 

compared with the rollers (11, 12), for the deflection of another guide rope (9).  
 
A turntable assembly according to claim 7, characterised in that the profiled rollers 
(12) are situated in close proximity to the large central deflection pulley (13) or to the 

other guide rope (9) but do not contact the latter. 
A turntable assembly according to any one of claims 1 to 8, characterised in that the 
rollers (11) consist of self-lubricating plastic material. 
A turntable assembly according to any one of claims 1 to 9, characterised in that the 
bearing pins of the rollers (11) have tubular stainless steel elements (14). 
A turntable assembly according to claim 10, characterised in that the stainless steel 
elements are distance bushes which are disposed between the side cheeks (15) of the 

support bracket (16) of the deflection unit (10). 
A turntable assembly according to claim 10, characterised in that the distance bushes 
are screwed to fixed bearing bolts between the side cheeks (15) of the support bracket 

(16). 
A turntable assembly according to any one of claims 1 to 12, characterised in that the 
deflection unit (10) has an additional row of rollers for the deflection of a third 

(outer) guide rope. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
