<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0555973</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Hybrid pumping arrangement for doped fiber amplifiers.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01S306	H01S306	H01S3067	H01S307	H01S3094	H01S3094	H01S310	H01S310	H04B1016	H04B1016	H04B1017	H04B1017	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A hybrid pumping scheme for rare-earth doped fiber amplifiers is 
disclosed. In particular, the arrangement utilizes at least two pump sources (P₁, P₂), 

operating at different wavelengths, coupled to a section of doped optical fiber (26), 
such as erbium-doped optical fiber. Optical multiplexers (16,20), such as fused fiber 

couplers, may be used to couple the message signal desired to be amplified, as well 
as the pump sources, to the doped fiber section. For certain embodiments, the doped 

fiber may be segmented into separate components, with the length of each 
component determined with respect to the wavelength of the associated pump signal. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMERICAN TELEPHONE 
&
 TELEGRAPH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DELAVAUX JEAN-MARC P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DELAVAUX, JEAN-MARC P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to doped fiber amplifiers for utilization in 
lightwave transmission systems and, more particularly, to pumping configurations 
for doped fiber amplifiers. Lightwave transmission systems, in particular undersea and terrestrial 
loop distribution systems, are beginning to utilize doped fiber amplifier technology 
to replace the conventional electronic regenerators previously used to provide 
amplification of lightwave signals traveling long distances. There exists many 
arrangements in the art for providing such doped fiber amplification. One such 
arrangement is disclosed in U. S. Patent 5,042,039 issued to Edagawa et al on 
August 20, 1991. As described therein, an erbium-doped optical fiber is utilized to 
provide gain to a communication signal by simultaneously passing a "pumping" 
signal (at an appropriate wavelength) through the erbium-doped medium. A need in most lightwave transmission systems is to provide for backup 
in case of the failure of a transmitting source. In the case of doped fiber 
amplifiers, the need often arises to provide a back-up pump laser source. Further, the 
choice of pump wavelength must often be chosen between a first value of 
approximately 1.48 µm, which provides maximum gain or 0.98 µm, which provides 
for low noise. Additionally, many systems exist which require a pump power level 
greater than that available from a single source. Current arrangements for providing 
increased pump power may utilize a pair of pump sources and require polarization 
control of the pump signals such that a polarization combiner may be utilized to 
launch pump pump signals into the doped fiber section. These and other issues 
remain of current concern in the doped fiber amplifier technology. The concerns mentioned above are addressed by the present invention 
which relates to doped fiber amplifiers for utilization in lightwave transmission 
systems and, more particularly, to pumping configurations for such doped fiber 
amplifiers, as further defined in the appended claims. FIG. 1 illustrates an exemplary hybrid doped fiber amplifier formed in 
accordance with the present invention, utilizing a pair of pump sources;  FIG. 2 illustrates an alternative embodiment of the present invention, 
utilizing a set of three separate pump sources; FIG. 3 illustrates yet another embodiment of the present invention where 
the length of the doped amplifier section is adjusted in accordance with the pump 
wavelength; and FIG. 4 illustrates a further embodiment of the present
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An optical system for amplifying an optical message signal (S) at a 
predetermined message wavelength (λS), said system comprising 

   a rare-earth doped optical fiber section (26); 
   CHARACTERIZED IN THAT the system further comprises 

   a plurality of optical pump sources (P) operating at at least two different 
wavelengths (e.g., λP1, λP2), said pump sources capable of providing amplification 

of said message signal within said doped fiber section; and 
   means for coupling (16,20) said optical message signal and said 

plurality of optical pump sources to said doped fiber section. 
An optical system as defined in claim 1 wherein 
   the plurality of optical pump sources comprises a pair of pump sources, 

defined as a first pump source (P₁) operating at a first pump wavelength λP1 and a 
second pump source (P₂) operating at a second pump wavelength λP2; and 

   the coupling means comprises 
   a first optical multiplexer (16) for receiving as separate inputs the 

optical message signal and the first pump source and providing as an output both 
input signals on a common output signal path (18); and 

   a second optical multiplexer (20) for receiving as separate inputs the 
common output signal path from the first optical multiplexer and the second pump 

source and providing as an output said message signal, said first pump source and 
said second pump source on a common output signal path, the output signal path 

(24) from the second multiplexer coupled to the input of the doped fiber section. 
An optical system as defined in claim 2 wherein the first pump source 
operates at a wavelength of approximately 1.48µm and the second pump source 

operates as a wavelength of approximately 0.98µm. 
An optical system as defined in claim 1 wherein 
   the plurality of pump sources comprises a first pump source operating at 

a first pump wavelength λP1, a second pump source operating at a second pump 
wavelength λP2 and a third pump source operating at a third pump wavelength λP3; and

 
   the coupling means comprises 

   a first optical multiplexer (46) for receiving as separate inputs the 
optical message signal and the first pump source and providing on a first common 

output signal path (48) both said message signal and first pump source; 
   a second optical multiplexer (54) for receiving as separate inputs the 

second pump source and the third pump source and providing on a second common 
output signal path (56) both said second and third pump sources; and 

   a third optical multiplexer (58) for receiving as separate inputs the first 
common output signal path from the first multiplexer and the second common output 

signal path from the second multiplexer for providing on a third common output 
signal path (60) the combination of the message signal, first pump source, second 

pump source and third pump source, the third common output signal path coupled to 
the input of the doped fiber section. 
An optical system as defined in claim 4 wherein λP1 is approximately 
1.48µm, λP2 is approximately 0.98µm, and λP3 is approximately 0.80µm. 
An optical system as defined in any of claims 2 to 5 wherein the said 
optical multiplexers comprise fused fiber couplers. 
An optical system as defined in any of the preceding claims wherein 
the length of the doped fiber section comprises a plurality of sections, the length of 

each section determined in accordance with the pump wavelengths of the plurality of 
pump sources. 
An optical system as defined in claim 7 wherein 
   the plurality of pump sources comprises a pair of pump sources, the 

wavelength associated with a first pump source being longer than the wavelength 
associated with a second pump source; and 

   the doped fiber section comprises a first component of length ℓ₁ and a 
second component of length ℓ₂, the length of said second component determined to 

provide maximum amplification with the second pump source and and the length of 
said first component determined such that the sum ℓ₁ and ℓ₂ provides maximum 

amplification with the first pump source. 
An optical system as defined in claim 8 wherein the wavelength of the 
 

first source is approximately 1.48µm and the wavelength of the second source is 
approximately 0.98µm. 
An optical system as defined in claim 9 wherein the length of the first 
component is approximately 6 meters and the length of the second component is 

approximately 9 meters. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
