<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653753</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Disk reproduction apparatus capable of continuously varying a reproduction speed
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B2010	G11B2018	G11B2014	G11B7005	G11B2010	G11B700	G11B2018	G11B2014	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B20	G11B20	G11B20	G11B7	G11B20	G11B7	G11B20	G11B20	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A pickup (2) reads data recorded on a disk (1) and 
outputs a current signal corresponding to the read data. 

An amplifier (3) outputs the current signal as a voltage 
signal. A data slice circuit (4) binarizes the voltage 

signal and converts it into an EFM signal. In response 
to the EFM signal, a PLL circuit (5) generates a PLL 

clock signal (PLCK) in synchronization with a reproduction 
speed. When a reference speed or its two-times 

higher speed is selected as the reproduction speed, if 
the PLL clock signal (PLCK) is synchronized with the EFM 

signal, the frequency of the PLL clock signal (PLCK) is 
proportionate to the reproduction speed. In response to 

the PLL clock signal (PLCK), the data slice circuit (4) 
controls the frequency band of a reference voltage in 

accordance with the reproduction speed, and outputs the 
EFM signal. A data processing circuit (6) demodulates 

the EFM signal and removes a jitter from the demodulated 
signal in response to the PLL clock signal (PLCK). The 

data processing circuit (6) also corrects an error of 
data corresponding to the demodulated signal in response 

to the PLL clock signal (PLCK), and outputs audio data. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an optical disk
reproduction apparatus such as a CD (compact disk) and,
more specifically, to a data slice circuit of a reproduction
apparatus capable of continuously varying a
reproduction speed.A digital recording/reproduction system is now
under development in the field of sound equipment. In
this system, in order to record/reproduce a signal with
high density and high reliability, an audio signal is
converted into a digital signal by the PCM (pulse code
modulation) technique, and the digital signal is
recorded on a disk, a magnetic tape, or the like and
reproduced therefrom. At present, a CD 12 cm in
diameter, on which a bit sequence corresponding to
digital data is formed and from which the bit sequence
is optically read out, is the most popular.The CD mainly stores 16-bit PCM data (main data) of
an analog audio signal. The digital data is stored in
the CD by repeating one frame constituted of 24 symbols
each having 8 bits. The CD employs a CIRC (cross
interleave reed-solomon code) as an error correction
code.More specifically, the digital data of 24 symbols
is supplied to a C2 encoder to generate a C2-sequence
error correcting parity symbol Q of 4 symbols. Both
the digital data and parity symbol Q are supplied to 
a C1 encoder via an interleave circuit to generate
C1-sequence error correcting parity symbol P of 4
symbols. 32-symbol data constituted of 24-symbol digital
data, 4-symbol parity symbol P and 4-symbol parity
symbol Q receives subcode data of 8 bits (one symbol).
The subcode data and 32-symbol data are modulated by
EFM (eight to fourteen modulation). Then a margin bit
of 3 extra bits is added between 14-bit symbols of the
modulated data, and a 24-bit synchronization patter is
added to the head of the bit sequence. Thus, 588-bit
data is recorded on the disk as one frame. Since, in
this case, the channel bit frequency is 4.32 MHz, the
data of one frame is recorded on the disk in 136 µsec
(at a frequency of 7.35 KHz). One subcode block consists
of 98 subcode frames, and data of one subcode
frame is recorded on the disk at a frequency of 75 Hz
(10.3 msec).A disk reproduction apparatus for reproducing data
from the CD mentioned above rotates the CD at a CLV
(constant linear velocity) by a motor and a motor
control circuit. An optical pickup device including a
semiconductor laser, a photoelectric transducer, etc.
reads data recorded on the CD by linearly tracking the
disk from the inner circumference to the outer one. The
read data (current signal) is supplied
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for use in disk data reproduction, the disk data
being read from a disk and being converted into an amplified electric

signal, said apparatus comprising:

a data slice circuit (4) for binarizing the amplified electric
signal to generate a modulated signal;

   said data slice circuit (4) including:

a comparator (10) for comparing the amplified electric signal
with a reference voltage, ssid comparator (10) outputting one of data

"0" and data "1" in accordance with the amplified electric signal and
the reference voltage;
a detecting means (11) for detecting
a difference between the time period of the data "0" and

the time period of the data "1" and for generating differential data representing said difference;
and
a voltage generating means (12) supplied with the differential
data from said detecting means (11), said voltage generating means (12)

generating a voltage in response to the differential data and supplying
the voltage to said comparator (10) as the reference voltage;

characterised by:

a PLL circuit (5) for generating a PLL clock signal corresponding
to a variation in reproduction speed of data, in response to the

modulated signal supplied from said data slice circuit (4),
and in that the detecting means (11) generates the differential data based on a count of the PLL clock signal
supplied from said PLL circuit (5).
An apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that said
detecting means (11) comprises an up-down counter which outputs the

differential data by counting the PLL clock signal in response to the
time period of the data "0" and the time period of the data "1". 
An apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that said
voltage generating means (12) comprises a digital-to-analog converter

which converts the differential data into an analog voltage, and

supplies the analog voltage to the comparator (10) as the reference
voltage.
An apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that
said data slice circuit (4) includes:


a frequency divider (13) for dividing a frequency of the PLL clock
signal supplied from said PLL circuit (5) to generate a count clock

signal;
an up-down counter (11) for counting the count clock signal
supplied from said frequency divider (13) in accordance with a first

time period of the data "0" and a second time period of the data "1"
supplied from said comparator (10), said up-down counter (11) outputting

differential data representing a difference between the first time
period of the data "0" and the second time period of the data "1"; and
a digital-to-analog converter (12) supplied with the differential
data from said up-down counter (11), said digital-to-analog converter

(12) converting the differential data into an analog voltage and
supplying the analog voltage to the comparator (10) as the reference

voltage,

whereby the data slice circuit (4) is operable to binarize the amplified
electric signal in accordance with the variation in reproduction speed 

of data.
An apparatus according to claim 4, characterized by further
comprising a data processing circuit (6) for demodulating said modulated

signal supplied from said data slice circuit (4) in response to the PLL
clock signal supplied from said PLL circuit (5), and for reproducing

data.
An apparatus according to claim 5, characterized in that
said data processing circuit (6) comprises:


a first demodulator (61) for demodulating the modulated signal
supplied from said data slice circuit (4);
a memory (64) for storing data output from said first demodulator
(61);
a controller (63) for writing the data output from said first
demodulator (61) to the memory (64) in response to the PLL clock signal

supplied from said PLL circuit (5), and for reading out the data
written to the memory (64) in response to the PLL clock signal; and
an error correction circuit (65) for correcting an error of the
data read out from said controller (63), in response to the PLL clock

signal supplied from said PLL circuit (5).
An apparatus according to claim 6, characterized by further
comprising a second demodulator (62) for demodulating the data output

from said first demodulator (61) into subcode data.
An apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that
said data slice circuit (4) includes: 


a first frequency divider (13) for dividing a frequency of the PLL
clock signal supplied from said PLL circuit (5) and for generating a

first clock signal;
a second frequency divider (15) for dividing a frequency of a
reference clock signal supplied from a quartz oscillator and for

outputting a second clock signal;
a switch (16) connected to said first and second frequency
dividers (13,15), for selecting one of said first and second clock

signals and for outputting a count clock signal;
an up-down counter (11) for counting the count clock signal
supplied from said switch (16) in accordance with a first time period

of the data "0" and a second time period of the data "1" supplied from
said comparator (10), said up-down counter (11) outputting differential

data representing a difference between the first time period of the
data "0" and the second time period of the data "1"; and
a digital-to-analog converter (12) supplied with the differential
data from said up-down counter (11), said digital-to-analog converter

(12) converting the differential data into an analog voltage and
supplying the analog voltage to the comparator (10) as the reference

voltage,

whereby the data slice circuit (4) is operable to binarize the amplified
electric signal in accordance with the variation in reproduction speed

of data.
An apparatus according to claim 8, characterized in that
said switch (16) is controlled by a control signal representing whether 

said PLL circuit (5) is locked or not.
An apparatus according to claim 9, characterized in that
said switch (16) selects the first clock signal when said control

signal represents a lock state of said PLL circuit (5), and said switch
(16) selects the second clock signal when said control signal represents

an unlock state of said PLL circuit (5).
An apparatus according to claim 9, characterized in that
said switch (16) selects the first clock signal output from said PLL

circuit (5) when a freqency of the PLL clock signal falls within
a predetermined freqency range of said modulated signal, and said switch

(16) selects the second clock signal when the freqency of the PLL clock
signal falls outside the predetermined freqency range of said modulated

signal.
An apparatus according to any one of claims 2, 3, 4 and 8,
characterized by further comprising:


a pickup means (2) for reading the disk data and for converting
the disk data into the amplified electric signal; and
a motor (8) for rotating the disk.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
