<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614293</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Multiplexer
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03K1700	H03K17693	H03K1700	G06F300	G11C710	G11C710	G06F300	H03K17693	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03K	H03K	H03K	G06F	G11C	G11C	G06F	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03K17	H03K17	H03K17	G06F3	G11C7	G11C7	G06F3	H03K17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention teaches an improved 
multiplexer system wherein more than one wide bus line 

may be connected to a single bus line, but wherein only 
one such wide bus line will be so connected. This system 

includes structure for imposing ordered consideration of 
each of the more than one wide bus lines to determine 

whether it should be connected to the single bus line, 
structure for enabling connecting of one of the wide bus 

lines to the single bus line, and structure for disabling 
possible connection of each of the more than one wide bus 

lines ordered subsequent to the connected wide bus line. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LATTICE SEMICONDUCTOR CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LATTICE SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOENCH JERRY D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOENCH, JERRY D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to multiplexers. More
particularly, the present invention relates to apparatus
and methods for improving the performance of wide
multiplexer structures.It is frequently advantageous in the electronic arts
to be able to connect a wide bus (i.e., one having more
than one line) to a single line bus. A structure to
effect such a connection is shown in FIG. 1.
Specifically, in FIG. 1 there is shown a structure
(generally designated by reference numeral 10) for
connecting an bus having "n" lines to a bus having only
one line. The individual lines of the n line bus shown
in FIG. 1 are designated X0, X1, X2... Xn-1. The line bus
shown in FIG. 1 is simply designated Y.Continuing to refer to FIG. 1, it may be seen that
the structure 10 comprises n transistors (each designated
by reference numeral 12), one each for each line of the
n line bus. In structure 10, a single bit of data
effectively controls each of the n transistors 12. These
bits are depicted in FIG. 1 in the form of memory bit
boxes (each designated by reference numeral 14), each of
which is connected to the gate of an associated
transistor 12. Each of the bits in the "memory cells" 14
may be enabled, therefore allowing connection of the
associated X and the Y line (e.g., enabling memory bit 0 
allows connection of line XO and the Y line) and transmission of data on the relevant
X line to the Y line (e.g. XO to Y in the example being presented).The structure depicted in FIG. 1 has certain shortcomings, however. It is
possible, for example, if any two of the memory cells are on and if they differ, line Y
can be in an unknown state. More specifically, as an example, XO and X1 could
differ. If, in such a case, both memory bits 0 and 1 were enabled, the value on line Y
would be unknown. Further, there would exist a high current path between lines XO
and X1 in such a case, assuming that both transistors TO and T1 were enabled and
that the transistors were of relatively large values for speed.Based upon the foregoing, those skilled in the art should recognize and
appreciate the shortcomings and deficiencies of prior art structures such as that
depicted in FIG. 1.US-A-5 086 427 provides a circuit to avoid "double drive" in which more than
one driver circuit on the data bus 60 is enabled to drive or dump data onto the bus at
the same time. This problem is overcome by drivers which are managed by
individual enabling logic which is controlled by a flip flop driven by a clock. Thus no
driver can connect and drive data onto the bus
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A multiplexer system for connecting a plurality of wide bus lines (X0, X1,..) to a
single bus line (28), and wherein each of said plurality of wide bus lines is routed

through an individual pass gate (P1,P2,..) to said single bus line, said multiplexer
system comprising;


means (18) for imposing ordered consideration of each of said plurality of wide bus
lines to determine whether it should be connected to said single bus line, this ordered

consideration creating a first and subsequent relationship among said plurality of wide
bus lines; and
means (22)for enabling connection of a first one of said plurality of wide bus lines to
said single bus line; 
characterised by
means (30) for disabling possible connection of each of said plurality of wide bus lines
ordered subsequent to said first one of said plurality of wide bus lines, said means

comprising a second pass gate (30) in a ground path (32) and a circuit node (20)
associated with said first one of said plurality of wide bus lines, said circuit node

being disposed in circuit between said individual pass gate and the second pass gate
(30) in the ground path (32) to control the second pass gate whereby to disa
ble
possible connection of each of said plurality of wide bus lines subsequent to said first

one of said plurality of wide bus lines.
The multiplexer system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said means for enabling
connection of a first one of said plurality of wide bus lines to said single bus line

comprises means (22) for causing the circuit node associated with said first one of
said plurality of wide bus lines to go low.
The multiplexer system as claimed in claim 2, wherein said means for enabling
connection of a first one of said plurality of wide bus lines to said single bus line

further comprises an inverter (22) disposed in circuit between the circuit node (20) 
associated with said first one (X0) of said plurality of wide bus lines and said

individual pass gate (P1) through which said first one of said plurality of wide bus
lines is routed, whereby when said circuit node goes low, said inverter and,

subsequently, said individual pass gate go high, connecting said first one of said
plurality of wide bus line to said single bus line.
The multiplexer system as claimed in claim 3, wherein the circuit node associated
with said first one of said plurality of wide bus lines is directly connected to said

second pass gate (30) in said ground path (30),

whereby when said circuit node goes low, said second pass gate goes low, effectively
terminating the ground path to subsequent wide bus lines (X1,...).
The multiplexer system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said means for imposing
ordered consideration of each of said plurality of wide bus lines comprises staged

memory cells (18), each of which staged memory cells is associated with one of said
plurality of wide bus lines, and each of which is further connected to a ground path

through a pass gate.
The multiplexer system as claimed in claim 5, wherein said means for imposing
ordered consideration of each of said plurality of wide bus lines further comprises at

least one means (44, 46) for amplifying a grounding signal, which means is connected
in circuit in said ground path.
The multiplexer system as claimed in claim 5, wherein said means for disabling
possible connection of each of said plurality of wide bus lines ordered subsequent to

said first one of said plurality of wide bus lines comprises means (30) for terminating
said ground path to subsequent memory cell stages.
The multiplexer system as claimed in claim 7, wherein said means for terminating
said ground path to subsequent memory cell stages comprises means (30) for pulling

low the pass gate associated with said one of said plurality of wide bus lines being 
connected to said single bus line.
The multiplexer system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said means for imposing
ordered consideration of each of said plurality of wide bus lines comprises staged

memory cells (18), each of which can be connected to a ground path, and further
comprising a buffering circuit (48, 50, 52, 54) terminating a plurality of staged

memory cells.
The multiplexer system as claimed in claim 9, wherein said buffering circuit
comprises a biasing mechanism (48), an inverter (52), and a pass gate (54) all serially

disposed on said ground path, and wherein said buffering circuit further comprises a
tristate buffer (50) disposed in said single bus line, said tristate buffer having a third

point of connection connected between said biasing mechanism and said inverter on
said ground path.
The multiplexer system as claimed in claim 9, wherein said buffering circuit
comprises a buffer (56) disposed in said single bus line and a pass gate (58) disposed

in said ground path.
A method for connecting a plurality of wide bus lines (X0, X1,..) to a single bus
line (28), said method comprising the steps of:


imposing ordered consideration of each of said plurality of wide bus lines to
determine whether it should be connected to said single bus lines, this ordered

consideration creating a first and subsequent relationship among said plurality of wide
bus lines;
and enabling connection of a first one of said plurality of wide bus lines to said single
bus line; 
characterised by
disabling possible connection of each of said plurality of wide bus lines ordered
subsequent to said first one of said plurality of wide bus lines by providing a second 

pass gate (30) in a ground path (32) and a circuit node (20) associated with said first
one of said plurality of wide bus lines, said circuit node being disposed in circuit

between said individual pass gate and the second pass gate (30) in the ground path
(32), wherein said step of disabling possible connection of each of said plurality of

wide bus lines ordered subsequent to said first one of said plurality of wide bus lines
comprises the step of terminating the ground path by controlling said second pass

gate.
The method as claimed in claim 12, wherein said method further comprises a step
of amplifying a grounding signal in said ground path.
The method as claimed in claim 12, wherein said step of imposing ordered
consideration of each of said plurality of wide bus lines comprises a step of forming

staged memory cells (18), one memory cell stage each for each of said plurality of
wide bus lines.
The method as claimed in claim 14, further comprising a step of buffering
multiple memory cell stages.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
