<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627903</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MEDICAL INSTRUMENT AND PROCEDURE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1716	A61B1717	A61F200	A61F200	A61F236	A61F236	A61F246	A61F246	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A medical instrument (30) and procedure mills a groove at a precise angle and location in a partially formed bone canal (14) that has been drilled and reamed to provide a frustoconical seat (62) for a prothesis stem that has a conical proximal region. The groove finishes preparation of the canal in a precise manner so that an anti-rotation lug (24) attached to the conical proximal region of the prothesis stem (16) seats in the finished canal accurately.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WRIGHT MEDICAL TECH INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WRIGHT MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RICHELSOPH MARC EVAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RICHELSOPH, MARC, EVAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MEDICAL INSTRUMENT AND PROCEDURETECHNICAL FIELDThis invention relates to medical instruments and procedures and more particularly to a medical instrument and procedure for the accurate preparation of a bone canal for good cortical contact with and proper load transfer from the stem of a prothesis.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONIn the development of advanced press-fit prothesis stems, such as hip stems, accurate preparation of the bone canal is extremely important in order to guarantee good cortical contact with and load transfer from the stem to the bone. Examples of prior art press-fit prosthetic hip stems may be had in the Dow Corning Wright publication "McCutchen Hip System" bearing copyright date 1988 and identification number 235-1187T. Some existing prothesis stems are designed with a conical proximal region to distribute the load and an anti-rotation lug to fix and maintain the accurate position of the joint portion of the prothesis.Bone canals for these prothesis stems are presently prepared by drilling the resected distal end of the bone and then reaming the drilled hole to provide a frustoconical seat for the trochanteral portion of the prothesis stem. The bone canal is then cut at an angle with a milling cutter to provide a slanted groove for seating the anti-rotation lug by dead-reckoning, i.e., by the surgeon eyeballing the appropriate location of the tool axis and angle in a procedure that often does not result in accurate seating of the anti-rotation lug.Alternatively, the bone canal can be prepared as taught in U.S.P.N. 5,135,529 to Paxson et al, issued August 4, 1992 and assigned to the assignee of the subject invention, the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference and relied upon. In Paxson et al, modular 

 unitary rasp blocks of varying sizes are used to form the slanted groove to receive the anti-rotation lug. Again, the procedure often does not result in accurate seating of the anti-rotation lug.The primary disadvantage of the prior art bone canal preparation techniques is that accurate and predictable results are difficult to obtain. Additionally, the prior art medical instruments used to prepare the bone canal for prosthesis implantation are often cumbersome and somewhat difficult for a single surgeon to operate, and often do not readily adapt themselves for accommodating various prosthesis stem configurations.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONThe invention contemplates a medical instrument for preparing the proximal end of a femur to receive a prosthesis having an attached
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A medical instrument for preparing a proximal end of a femur to receive a prosthesis having an attached anti-rotation lug, the femur having a partially prepared canal with a countersunk frustoconical seat for receiving a trochanteral portion of the prosthesis, the instrument comprising: a frame having two spaced frame portions; a post attached to one of the frame portions and defining a reference axis; a tool guide attached to the other of the frame portions and defining a cutting axis fixed at a precise angle with respect to the reference axis; and fixture means extending from the post configured to attach to the countersunk frustoconical seat in the partially prepared canal in the femur to locate the reference axis in relation to the prepared canal so that the tool guide and the cutting axis are set at the precise angle for guiding a rotary cutting tool in the partially prepared canal to accommodate the anti-rotation lug of the prosthesis when implanted in the femur with the trochanteral portion of the prosthesis seated in the countersunk frustoconical seat.
2. An instrument as defined in claim 1, wherein the post includes a distal end, further comprising a quick- disconnect coupling disposed on the distal end of the post configured to releasibly attach the fixture means.
3. An instrument as defined in claim 1, wherein the post includes a proximal end, further comprising a handle attached to the proximal end of the post.
4. An instrument as defined in claim 2, wherein the post includes a proximal end, further comprising a coaxial handle attached to the proximal end of the post. 


 5. An instrument as defined in claim 1, wherein the tool guide comprises spaced collars configured to rotatably support a necked shank of a rotary cutting tool, each of the collars having an entrance slot for laterally receiving the necked shank of the rotary cutting tool.
6. A medical instrument for preparing a proximal end of a femur to receive a prosthesis having attached anti-rotation lug, the femur having a partially prepared canal with a countersunk frustoconical seat for receiving a trochanteral portion of the prosthesis, the instrument comprising: a frame having two spaced portions; a post attached to one of the frame portions and defining a reference axis; a tool guide attached to the other of the frame portions and defining a cutting axis fixed at a precise angle with respect to the reference axis; a rotary milling cutter operatively disposed in the tool guide configured to advancingly move along the cutting axis; a plurality of spaced collars extending from the tool guide and each of the collars having a radial entrance slot for receiving the rotary milling cutter laterally of the cutting axis; and fixture means extending from the post configured to attach to the countersunk frustoconical seat in the partially prepared canal in the femur to locate the reference axis in relation to the prepared canal so that the tool guide and the cutting axis are set at the precise angle for guiding the cutting tool in the partially prepared canal to accommodate the anti-rotation lug of the prosthesis when implanted in the femur with the trochanteral portion of the prosthesis seated in the countersunk frustoconical seat.
7. An instrument as defined in claim 6, wherein the 


 post includes a proximal end, further comprising a coaxial handle attached to the proximal end of the post.
8. An instrument as defined in claim 1, wherein the frame includes a collar surrounding a portion of the post configured to permit axial movement of the post relative to the frame.
9. An instrument as defined in claim 1, comprising bearing block means disposed in the collar configured to prevent rotation of the post with respect to the collar.
10. An instrument as defined in claim 9, wherein the post includes an external screw thread, further comprising an adjustment nut rotatably mounted in the collar and threadably engaging the screw thread of the post for moving the post in the axial direction during rotation of the adjustment nut.
11. An instrument as defined in claim 10, wherein the post includes at least one flat interrupting the screw thread and disposed in sliding contact with the bearing block means.
12. An instrument as defined in claim 10, further comprising means for locating the post in a plurality of preselected axial positions with respect to the collar.
13. An instrument as defined in claim 12, wherein the means for locating the post in a plurality of preselected axial positions comprises a plurality of cross bores disposed in the post and a spring-loaded detent sequentially engageable with the cross bores.
14. An instrument as defined in claim 13, wherein each of the cross bores has a unique depth and the frame includes visible indicia showing the position of the detent. 


 15. A medical procedure for cutting a slanted groove at a precise location and angle in a partially formed canal of a proximal end of a femur to accommodate a prosthesis having an anti-rotation lug extending along a slant angle, comprising: forming a frustoconical seat in the proximal end of the femur along a reference axis; positioning a fixture in the frustoconical seat; supporting a rotary cutting tool from the fixture along a cutting axis extending obliquely to the reference axis; and operatively advancing the rotary cutting tool into the proximal end of the femur while positioning the fixture in the frustoconical seat to resect a slanted groove in the partially formed canal for receiving the anti-rotation lug when the prosthesis is implanted in the finished canal.
16. A medical procedure as defined in claim 15, further comprising manually applying an axial force to the fixture while operatively advancing the rotary cutting tool to retain the fixture in the frustoconical seat.
17. A medical procedure as defined in claim 15, further comprising turning the rotary cutting tool with a hand held power source.
18. A medical procedure as defined in claim 16, further comprising turning the rotary cutting tool with a hand held power source.
19. A medical procedure as defined in claim 18, wherein a single operator manually applies an axial force to the fixture while simultaneously grasping the hand held power source. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
