<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651932</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMAGE PROCESSING SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N712	H04N712	H04N726	H04N726	H04N746	H04N746	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An image processing system (9) having a transmitter (10) capable of selecting a proportion of pixels (Umn) and deleting a proportion of pixels (Gmn, umn, gmn) of a video field for achieving data compression. A receiver (12) is provided for regenerating the deleted pixels (Gmn, umn, gmn) for regenerating the video field. The receiver (12) having a processor control (26a) for horizontally interlacing the regenerated pixels over a period of time substantially imperceptable to a viewer for relying upon the BETA APPARENT MOVEMENT effect for providing an apparent resolution which is greater than the actual resolution of the regenerated video field. Enhancement of the resolution of the video field is also provided by adding random noise pixels into the regenerated video field.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SALA AND ASSOCIATES PTY LTD DR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DR. SALA AND ASSOCIATES PTY. LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SALA AMEDEO FILIBERTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SALA, AMEDEO, FILIBERTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TITLE IMAGE PROCESSING SYSTEMFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to an image processing system particularly, although not exclusively, envisaged for use in reducing the bandwidth requirements for transmission of video signals (i.e. for high definition television(HDTV) , TV, video and video-phones), increasing the resolution of a video picture for a given bandwidth (HDTV) and in digitising 'signals for storage onto video cassette tapes.The present invention is able to do this by taking into consideration the psychophysical attributes of the human visual perception system, namely BETA APPARENT MOVEMENT and SUPER EDGING (the Julesz stereopsis experiment) .BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION The design of the modern television has been influenced by previous discoveries in the cinema industry and are based on three basic design parameters:1. Frame Format - in cinema it was discovered that a frame rate of 16 frames per second was needed to sustain smooth apparent motion. This was increased to 24 frames per second in order to reproduce sound. Then the rate was increased to half of the mains frequency (25 Hz in Europe and 30Hz in USA) so as to avoid mains interference.2. Synchronisation - achieved by sequentially scanning video pictures starting at the top left of the frame and progressing to the bottom right on a line by line basis, and repeating the process for subsequent frames.3. Flicker - which has important effects on selection of the frame frequency. If the frame frequency iε too low (say 16 Hz or less) flicker results; at medium frequencies (say 25 Hz) stroboεcopic effects are created (i.e. wheels appearing to 

 rotate counter to their actual movement; whereas at too high a frequency (50 Hz) the bandwidth required is too large and costs become prohibitive. In relation to the latter, video compression techniques have been developed to reduce the bandwidth requirements. However, most of these solutions are based on algorithms which are mainly designed to detect and predict changes such as those described in the proposed CCITT standard H261.Conventional display techniques including television and electronic displays work on the principle that for an image to be seen by a viewer, the complete image has to be represented by the illumination of the appropriate picture elements (pixels) in the form of the image. When these pixels are lit in their appropriate positions, the human eye can reconstruct the complete image, preserving the positional relationships of the pixels.The biggest drawback of this
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. An image procesεing εyεtem having: interlocking meanε for interlacing the pixelε of subsequent fields of pixels horizontally; whereby, the interlacing causes the pixels to move backwards and forwards at a rate subεtantially imperceptible to a human viewer for creating a perceived reεolution of a video image formed by a plurality of the fieldε so interleaved, wherein the perceived resolution is greater than the actual resolution.
2. An image procesεing εyεtem according to claim 1, in which the interlacing meanε interlaceε pixelε horizontally and vertically.
3. An image proceεεing εyεtem according to claim 1, in which the interlacing meanε interlaceε the pixels in a random manner.
4. An image procesεing εyεtem according to any one of the preceding claimε, alεo compriεing a noise generation means for generating pixelε of random luminance for interεperεing between the pixelε for relying upon the εuper edging effect for enhancing the perceived reεolution of the video image.
5. An image proceεεing εyεtem for compressing a video image referred to as an original video image, the image processing εyεtem compriεing: a digitiεer means for digitising the original video image, the original video image being formed of a plurality of original video fields each having M rows of pixels and N columns of pixels; and, a process control means for proceεεing the digitised original fields, the procesε control meanε selecting one pixel out of every d pixels and for deleting the remainder of the d-l pixels for generating depleted fields in a 



depleted video image, the depleted field having m rowε of pixelε and n columns of pixels where m iε leεε than M and n iε leεs than N; whereby, a receiver means can receive the depleted video image and can generate d-l pixelε from each εelected pixel and can diεplay each εelected pixel and itε aεsociated d-l generated pixelε in a manner to simulate movement of the pixels on the diεplay to εubεtantially reconεtruct the original video image by relying on the BETA APPARENT MOVEMENT effect.
6. An image proceεεing εyεtem according to claim 5, in which the proceεε controller interlaces the pixels in a random manner.
7. A image procesεing εyεtem according to claim 5, alεo compriεing a noiεe generation means for generating pixels of random luminance for interspersing between the pixels for relying upon the εuper edging effect for enhancing the perceived reεolution of the video image.
8. A method for compreεεing a video image referred to as an original video image, the method comprising the steps of: digitising a field of the original video image into a plurality of data byteε referred to aε pixelε, each original video field having M rowε of pixelε and N columnε of pixels; εelecting one pixel out of every d pixelε; deleting the remainder of the d-l pixelε; and, generating a depleted field of pixelε in a depleted video image, the depleted field having m rowε of pixelε and n columnε of pixels where m is less than M and n is less than N; whereby, a receiver meanε can receive the depleted video image, generate d-l pixelε from each εelected pixel and display each selected pixel and its asεociated d-l generated pixels on a display means in a manner to simulate 


movement of the pixels to substantially reconstruct the original video image by relying on the BETA APPARENT MOVEMENT effect.
9. An image processing system for decompressing a video image referred to as a depleted video image, the image procesεing εystem comprising: a digitiεer means for digitising the depleted video image, the depleted video image being formed of a plurality of depleted video fields each having m rows of pixels and n columns of pixels; and, a process control means for procesεing the digitiεed depleted fieldε, the proceεε control means generating d-l pixels from each selected pixel and displaying each selected pixel and its associated d-l generated pixels over a period of time imperceptible to a viewer for simulating movement of the pixelε on a display to regenerate an original video image having M rows of pixels and N columns of pixels; wherein, the process controller relies upon the BETA APPARENT MOVEMENT effect in regenerating the original video image.
10. An image procesεing system according to claim 9, also compriεing a noiεe generation means for generating pixels of random luminance for intersperεing between the pixelε for relying upon the super edging effect for enhancing the perceived resolution of the video image.
11. A method for decompresεing a video image referred to aε a depleted video image, the method comprising the steps of: digitising the depleted video image, the depleted video image being formed of a plurality of depleted video fields each having m rows of pixels and n columns of pixelε; εelecting.a pixel from the depleted video image; generating d-l pixelε from each εelected pixel; displaying each selected pixel and its associated d-l 


generated pixelε over a period of time imperceptible to a viewer for εimulating movement of the pixelε on a display means for reconεtructing an original video image with the εelected pixelε and the generated pixelε, the reconεtructed video image having M rowε of pixels and N columns of pixels, where M is greater than m and N in greater than n; wherein, the simulated movement relies upon the BETA APPARENT MOVEMENT effect in reconstructing the original video image.
12. An image procesεing system according to claim 11, also comprising a noiεe generation meanε for generating pixelε of random luminance for interεperεing between the pixelε for relying upon the εuper edging effect for enhancing the perceived resolution of the video image. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
