<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649662</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Biodegradable implant precursor
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K600	A61L2754	A61L2758	A61L2718	A61F228	A61K900	A61F208	A61F228	B29C4108	A61F202	A61L2716	B29C4108	B29C4112	A61C1906	B29C6702	A61C800	A61K900	A61L3114	A61L2756	B29C6706	A61F208	A61L3114	A61L2750	B29C4112	A61K600	A61L2700	A61C1900	A61F202	A61K4734	A61L2700	A61C800	A61K4734	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61F	A61K	A61F	A61F	B29C	A61F	A61L	B29C	B29C	A61C	B29C	A61C	A61K	A61L	A61L	B29C	A61F	A61L	A61L	B29C	A61K	A61L	A61C	A61F	A61K	A61L	A61C	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K6	A61L27	A61L27	A61L27	A61F2	A61K9	A61F2	A61F2	B29C41	A61F2	A61L27	B29C41	B29C41	A61C19	B29C67	A61C8	A61K9	A61L31	A61L27	B29C67	A61F2	A61L31	A61L27	B29C41	A61K6	A61L27	A61C19	A61F2	A61K47	A61L27	A61C8	A61K47	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention is directed to a biodegradable 
implant precursor having a two-part structure made of an 

outer sac and a liquid content. The implant precursor 
is composed of a biodegradable, water-coagulable 

thermoplastic polymer and a water-miscible organic 
solvent. When administered to an implant site in an 

animal, the implant precursor will solidify 
in situ
 to a 
solid, microporous matrix by dissipation of the organic 

solvent to surrounding tissue fluids and coagulation of 
the polymer. The invention also includes methods of 

making the implant precursor, an apparatus for forming 
the precursor, and a kit containing the apparatus. Also 

provided are methods of using the implant precursor for 
treating a tissue defect in an animal, for example, for 

enhancing cell growth and tissue regeneration, wound and 
organ repair, nerve regeneration, soft and hard tissue 

regeneration, and the like, for delivery of 
biologically-active substances to tissue or organs, and 

other like therapies. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ATRIX LAB INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ATRIX LABORATORIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COX CHARLES P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUNN RICHARD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOWE BRYAN K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NORTON RICHARD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERSON KENNETH S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POLSON ALAN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SWANBOM DERYL D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COX, CHARLES P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUNN, RICHARD L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOWE, BRYAN K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NORTON, RICHARD L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERSON, KENNETH S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POLSON, ALAN M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SWANBOM, DERYL D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
In the course of periodontal disease, infection
of gingival tissue by plaque bacteria causes the
ligaments attaching the gum and teeth to recede,
decalcifies the bony structure holding the teeth roots
to the bone, and forms periodontal pockets in the
gingival tissue adjacent the teeth. Successful
periodontal restoration is known to occur if periodontal
ligament cells are allowed to colonize root surfaces
preferentially over gingival epithelial cells, gingival
fibroblasts or osteoblasts. Surgery alone, however,
does not result in restoration of lost periodontium.In an attempt to promote and achieve
periodontal restoration, implant techniques have been
developed. For example, microporous membranes, such as
the Millipore® filter and GORE-TEX® membranes, have been
developed for use in periodontal tissue regeneration.
Typically, the periodontal flap is cut, and the
microporous membrane is surgically inserted to cover the
surface of the tooth root and to physically occlude
epithelial cells from apically migrating along the root
surface.These membranes have several drawbacks.
Besides providing variable results, a second surgical
entry is needed to remove the membrane after tissue
regeneration has been achieved because the membranes are
not biodegradable. There is also a higher incidence of
infection in connection with their use.To preclude surgical removal of an implant,
membranes made of bioabsorbable material, such as
microfibrillar collagen, polylactic acid, and
polygalactin (Vicryl® ) mesh have been used. Fitting and
positioning these membranes to the implant site is
cumbersome and time-consuming, and the therapeutic
effect of these membranes has been unpredictable. In 
addition, the degradation time of membranes composed of
collagen has been variable, and the risk of adverse
immunological reaction to this foreign protein material
in the body presents a major concern.A liquid system containing a biodegradable
polymer has been developed wherein the solution is
injected into an implant site, and solidifies in situ to
form a biodegradable implant having a solid microporous
matrix. Advantageously, the implant does not require
surgical removal. However, controlled delivery and
containment of a liquid system within a particular area
within the implant site is difficult, and the liquid may
spread to areas other than the implant site.Therefore, there is a need for an article which
will facilitate the controlled placement in an implant
site of a liquid polymer solution for forming an
implant. A further need is to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An implant precursor for implantation in a tissue
defect in an animal, comprising:

a two-part structure composed of an outer sac and a
liquid content; the implant precursor comprising a

mixture of a biocompatible, biodegradable, water-coagulable
thermoplastic polymer, and a

pharmaceutically-acceptable, water-soluble organic
solvent.
The implant precursor according to claim 1, wherein
the liquid content of the implant precursor has a

consistency ranging from watery to viscous, and the
outer sac has a consistency ranging from gelatinous

to waxen-like.
The implant precursor according to claim 1 or 2, wherein
the implant precursor is capable of reverting to an

all-liquid form after about 30-90 minutes within
being formed, and without subsequent contact with an

aqueous medium.
The implant precursor according to any of the claims 1 to 3, wherein
the thermoplastic polymer is selected from the group

consisting of polylactides, polyglycolides,
polycaprolactones, polyanhydrides, polyamides,

polyurethanes, polyesteramides, polyorthoesters,
polydioxanones, polyacetals, polyketals,

polycarbonates, polyorthocarbonates,
polyphosphazenes, polyhydroxybutyrates,

polyhydroxyvalerates, polyalkylene oxalates,
polyalkylene succinates, polymalic acid, polyamino

acids, polymethyl vinyl ether, chitin, chitosan, and
copolymers, terpolymers, and any combination

thereof. 
The implant precursor according to claim 1, wherein
the solvent is selected from the group consisting of

N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone, 2-pyrrolidone, ethanol,
propylene glycol, propylene carbonate, acetone,

acetic acid, ethyl acetate, ethyl lactate, methyl
acetate, methyl ethyl ketone, dimethylformamide,

dimethyl sulfoxide, dimethyl sulfone,
tetrahydrofuran, caprolactam, decylmethylsulfoxide,

oleic acid, N,N-diethyl-m-toluamide, and 1-dodecylazacycloheptan-2-one,
and any combination

thereof.
The implant precursor according to claim 1, further
comprising a pore-forming agent selected from the

group consisting essentially of a sugar, a salt, a
water-soluble polymer, and a water-insoluble

substance that rapidly degrades to a water soluble
substance.
The implant precursor according to claim 1, further
comprising a biologically-active agent selected from

the group consisting of an antibacterial agent, an
antifungal agent, and an antiviral agent.
The implant precursor according to claim 1, further
comprising a biologically-active agent selected from

the group consisting of an anti-inflammatory agent,
an antiparasitic agent, anti-neoplastic agent, an

analgesic agent, an anaesthetic agent, a vaccine, a
central nervous system agent, a growth factor, a

hormone, an antihistamine, an osteoinductive agent,
a cardiovascular agant, an anti-ulcer agent, a

bronchodilating agent, a vasodilating agent, a birth
control agent, and a fertility-enhancing agent. 
The implant precursor according to claim 1, further
comprising a bone growth promoting substance.
The implant precursor of claim 9, wherein the bone
promoting substance is bone morphogenic protein.
The implant precursor of claim 9, wherein the bone
growth promoting substance is hydroxyapatite.
The implant precursor according to claim 1, further
comprising a release rate modification agent for 

controlling the rate of release of a bioactive agent

in vivo
 from the implant matrix.
The implant precursor according to claim 12, wherein
the release rate modification agent is selected from

the group consisting of an ester of a monocarboxylic
acid, an ester of a dicarboxylic acid, an ester of a

tricarboxylic acid, a polyhydroxy alcohol, a fatty
acid, a triester of glycerol, a sterol, an alcohol,

and any combination thereof.
The implant precursor according to claim 13, wherein
the release rate modification agent is selected from

the group consisting of 2-ethoxyethyl acetate,
methyl acetate, ethyl acetate, diethyl phthalate,

dimethyl phthalate, dibutyl phthalate, dimethyl
adipate, dimethyl succinate, dimethyl oxalate,

dimethyl citrate, triethyl citrate, acetyl tributyl
citrate, acetyl triethyl citrate, glycerol

triacetate, di(n-butyl) sebecate, propylene glycol,
polyethylene glycol, glycerin, sorbitol,

triglyceride, epoxidized soybean oil, cholesterol, a
C
6
-C
12
 alkanol, 2-ethoxyethanol, or any combination
thereof.
The implant precursor according to claim 13, wherein
the release rate modification agent is selected from

the group consisting of dimethyl citrate, triethyl
citrate, ethyl heptanoate, glycerin, hexanediol, and

any combination thereof.
A method of making an ex vivo implant precursor, comprising:

(a) applying an effective amount of an aqueous
medium to a surface of a solid support

substrate to form an aqueous layer; 
(b) dispensing an effective amount of a liquid
polymer solution onto the aqueous layer; the

polymer solution comprising a water-coagulable,
biocompatible, biodegradable thermoplastic

polymer and a water-miscible, pharmaceutically-acceptable
organic solvent;
(c) applying an effective amount of an aqueous
medium onto the surface of the polymer

solution; and
(d) allowing the polymer adjacent the aqueous
medium to coagulate to form the implant

precursor comprising a two-part structure
composed of an outer sac and a liquid content;

the amount of aqueous medium applied in steps (a)
and (c) being effective to cause surface coagulation

of the polymer to form the outer sac of the implant
precursor.
The method according to claim 16, further comprising
step (e) of maintaining the implant precursor at a

thickness of about 400-1500 µm.
The method according to claim 16 or 17, wherein the
thickness of the implant precursor is maintained by

compressing the coagulating polymer solution during
step (d).
The method according to any of the claims 16 to 18, wherein the
support substrate comprises glass, porous plastic,

sintered stainless steel, porcelain, bone material,
bone, oxidized cellulose foam, biocompatible polymer

foam, particles of biocompatible polymer, tricalcium
phosphate and blood materials. 
The method according to any of the claims 16 to 19, further comprising
prior to step (a), the steps of:


(i) applying a minor but effective amount of an
aqueous medium as a layer on the surface of the

support substrate;
(ii) dispensing an effective amount of a polymer
solution onto the aqueous layer to form a line

defining an area thereon; the polymer solution
comprising a biocompatible, biodegradable,

water-coagulable thermoplastic polymer, and a
pharmaceutically- acceptable, water-soluble

organic solvent;
(iii) applying an effective amount of an aqueous
medium to the surface of the line; and
(iv) allowing the polymer to coagulate to form a
boundary line comprising a two-part structure

composed of an outer sac with a liquid content;

wherein the implant precursor is formed on the
support substrate within the area confined by the

boundary line.
The method according to any of the claims 16 to 20, further comprising
prior to step (a), the step of preparing a support

layer, the
support layer comprising a bioabsorbable or

bioerodible material;

wherein the implant precursor is formed on the
surface of the support layer. 
The method according to claim 21, wherein the
support layer comprises a polymer solution coated

onto the surface of the tissue defect; the polymer
solution comprising a biocompatible, biodegradable,

water-coagulable thermoplastic polymer, and a
pharmaceutically-acceptable, water-miscible organic

solvent.
The method according to claim 22, further comprising
incorporating a gas-forming agent into a polymer

solution, and forming the support layer as a porous,
foam-like structure.
The method according to claim 21, wherein the
support layer comprises a natural body substance.
The method according to claim 21, wherein the
support layer comprises clotted blood.
The method according to claim 21, wherein the
support layer comprises an oxidized cellulose or

gelatin.
The method according to claim 21, wherein the
support layer comprises a water-soluble polymer.
The method according to claim 21, wherein the
support layer comprises tricalcium phosphate,

calcium sulfate or hydroxyapatite.
The method according to claim 27, wherein the
support layer consisting of polylactides,

polyglycolides, polycaprolactones, polyanhydrides,
polyamides, polyurethanes, polyesteramides,

polyorthoesters, polydioxanones, polyacetals,
polyketals, polycarbonates, polyorthocarbonates, 

polyphosphazenes, polyhydroxybutyrates,
polyhydroxyvalerates, polyalkylene oxalates,

polyalkylene succinates, polymalic acid,
polyethylene glycol, hydroxypropyl cellulose,

polyvinyl pyrrolidone, polyamino acids, polymethyl
vinyl ether, chitin, chitosan, and copolymers,

terpolymers, and any combination thereof.
An apparatus for forming an implant precursor,
comprising:


(a) hydrophilic, porous support means for maintaining a polymer
solution thereon during formation of an implant precursor;
(b) hydrophilic, porous means for compressing the polymer solution
during formation of the implant precursor; and
(c) means for hinging the support means to the
compressing means;

the hinging means being positioned along one
edge of the support means and the compressing

means; wherein the compressing means may be
pivoted and placed onto the polymer solution on

the support means.
A kit comprising, in combination:

(a) an apparatus for forming an implant precursor

ex vivo
, comprising:

(i) nydrophilic, porous support means for maintaining
a polymer solution thereon during formation of an

implant precursor,
(ii) hydrophilic, porous means for compressing the
polymer solution during formation of the implant

precursor; and
(iii) means for hinging the support means to the
compressing means;

the hinging means being positioned along one
edge of the support means and the compressing 

means; wherein the compressing means may be
pivoted and placed onto the polymer solution on

the support means;
(b) at least one spacer means for maintaining a gap
between the support means and compressing means

of the apparatus when the compressing mean is
pivoted and 
placed on the support means;
(c) a vial containing a polymer mixture comprising
a biocompatible, biodegradable, water-coagulable

thermoplastic polymer, and a
pharmaceutically-acceptable, water-miscible

organic solvent; and
(d) a vial containing a source of an aqueous
medium.
The kit according to claim 31, further comprising
one or more items (e)-(i):


(e) means for lifting and holding the formed
implant precursor;
(f) means for measuring the dimensions of the
tissue defect or the implant precursor;
(g) a gridded means for measuring the dimensions of
the implant precursor;
(h) means for cutting the implant precursor; or
(i) means for removing the aqueous medium from the
surface of the implant precursor.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
