<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647922</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus for sensing mail piece surface contour
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G07B1700	G07B1700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G07B	G07B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G07B17	G07B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A mailing machine is disclosed which includes an apparatus (86) 
for scanning the surface contour of mail pieces (30) as they move along a 

feed path (28) prior to being engaged by the printing device (14) of a 
postage meter (13) to determine whether the surface contour of the mail 

piece in the area where printing is to take place is suitable for printing 
and for actuating an instrumentality intended to prevent printing of the 

postage indicia in that area if the printing surface is not suitable for 
receiving a good quality print. There is an electro-optical information 

generating means (108) which is operated by a scanning means (86), and 
a controller means (112) receives and interprets information from the 

electro-optical means (108) to determine whether the information 
exceeds threshold limits for the information stored in a memory in the 

controller means, in which case the controller means produces an output 
signal to an actuator (114) which initiates appropriate action intended to 

prevent printing of the postage indicia on the mail piece in the area where 
the surface is not acceptable for printing. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PITNEY BOWES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PITNEY BOWES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MALIN RICHARD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MALIN, RICHARD A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to apparatus for scanning
the surface contour of mail pieces being fed by a mailing machine and is
applicable to the field of mailing machines, and more particularly to a
mailing machine which includes an apparatus for sensing thickness
variations in the surface contour of pieces of mail to avoid printing
postage indicia on mail pieces in areas on the mail pieces having surface
contours unacceptable for printing.Mailing machines have long been well known and have been
developed over time to a high level of technical sophistication and
complexity of features of operation. For these reasons, mailing
machines have become very attractive to low, medium and high
volume mailers, and technological advancements are constantly
underway to further enhance the advantages and desirability of
these machines. One of the advantageous features of operation is
that modern day mailing machines can handle mail pieces having
variable thickness, ranging from air mail thickness up to about a
quarter of an inch, without having to make any mechanical
adjustments to any the operating components of the mailing
machine (e.g. WO-A-91/14238 and GB-A-2 236 859). This is a significant advantage of mailing machines from
the economic standpoint in that relatively inexpensive, low
volume mailing machines would not be provided with such
adjustment mechanism in order to maintain a low cost, and the
provision of such mechanism in a high speed, high volume mailing
machine would inevitably have a deleterious effect on the speed
of operation if the machine had to make mechanical adjustments
to accommodate mail pieces of varying thickness.One problem which arises in the operation of mailing
machines is that of printing a postage indicia on a mail piece that
does not have a smooth surface in the area in which it is desired
to print a postage indicia. As is generally known, the principal
function of a mailing machine is to print a postage indicia on a
piece of mail in lieu of affixing a postage stamp. The mailing
machine includes a base having a feed deck for supporting a mail
piece, and in more sophisticated machines, a feeding mechanism
for automatically and sequentially feeding successive mail pieces 
along the feed deck. The mailing machine also includes a postage
meter including a printing device for printing the postage indicia
on the mail piece, either while it is stationary or is being fed along
the feed deck.The U. S. Postal Service has promulgated regulations
regarding the printing of postage
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Mailing machine (10) having means defining a feed path
along which mail pieces (30) are adapted to move, and means for

printing (14) postage indicia in a predetermined location on the mail
pieces as they move along the feed path, apparatus for scanning (86)

the surface contour of the mail pieces as they move along the feed
path prior to being engaged by the printing device of the postage

meter characterised in that the apparatus for scanning (86) is adapted to determine whether the surface contour of the mail piece
in the area where printing is to take place is suitable for printing

and for actuating an instrumentality intended to prevent printing
of the postage indicia in that area, said apparatus comprising:


A. sensing means (88) disposed, or for disposition, adjacent to
the feed path of the mailing machine for contacting the surface of a

mail piece as it moves along the feed path.
B. means for mounting (92) said sensing means (88) for movement in
a direction toward and away from the surface of the mail piece in

response to variations in the contour of said surface,
C. electro-optical means (106,108) operatively associated with said
mounting mean
s (92) and responsive to movement of said mounting
means for generating information indicative of the extent of

movement of said sensing means,
D. controller means (112) for receiving and interpreting said
information to determine whether said information exceeds

threshold limits for said information stored in memory in said
controller means, said controller means including means for

producing an output signal if said information received from said
electro-optical means exceeds said threshold limits for said

information, and
E. means (114) responsive to said output signal from said
controller means for actuating an instrumentality (44) which is

intended to prevent a printing operation from taking place on an
unacceptable area of the surface the mail piece,

   whereby the operator of the mailing machine is given
appropriate indication that the surface area of the mail piece

where the postage indicia is to be printed has a surface contour
which is unacceptable for printing. 
Apparatus as set forth in Claim 1 wherein said sensing
means comprises a plurality of follower elements (92) mounted in side

by side relationship so as to independently scan the surface of the
mail piece as it moves beneath said follower elements.
Apparatus as set forth in Claim 2 wherein said mounting
means comprises a plurality of follower arms (92) corresponding to the

number of follower elements said follower arms being mounted
for movement in response to movement of said follower elements

from variations in the contour of the surface of said mail piece.
Apparatus as set forth in Claim 3 wherein said mounting
means further comprises means for biasing (96) said follower arms in a

direction opposite to the direction of movement of said follower
arms in response to movement of said follower elements, thereby,

normally maintaining said follower elements in contact with the
surface of the mail piece.
Apparatus as set forth in Claim 3 or 4 wherein said mounting
means further includes means (104) operatively associated with said

electro-optical means for causing said electro-optical means to
generate said information in varying degree in response to

movement of said follower arms so that said information is
indicative of the extent of movement of said follower arms, as said

follower elements follow the contour variations in the surface of
the mail piece.
Apparatus as set forth in any preceding claim wherein said electro-optical
means comprises a source of radiation (106) and a charge

coupled device array (108) responsive to radiation for generating said
information.
Apparatus as set forth in Claim 6 wherein said means (104)
operatively associated with said electro-optical means comprises

means mounted on said follower arms for obscuring more or less
of said radiation from said charge coupled device array in

response to movement of said follower arms. 
Apparatus as set forth in Claim 7 wherein said obscuring
means comprises a mask (102) mounted on each of said follower arms,

each mask having a shaped surface which obscures illumination
from more or less of the individual cells of the charge coupled

device associated with a particular follower arm.
Apparatus as set forth in Claim 1 wherein said means for
activating (114) said instrumentality (44) intended to prevent a printing

operation from taking place comprises

A. a platen roller mounted, or for mounting, adjacent to the
printing means of the mailing machine for feeding mail pieces along the

feed path to and through said printing means,
B. means mounting said platen roller for movement into
and out of engagement with a mail piece, and
C. means responsive to said output signal from said
controller for moving said platen roller mounting means to

disengage said platen roller from a mail piece moving past said
printing means,

   whereby, in use, when said platen roller is disengaged from the
mail piece, the printing operation does not take place thereon.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
