<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0909193</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED INFUSION APPARATUS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M514	A61M514	A61M500	A61M3928	A61M500	A61M3900	A61M5168	A61M5168	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61M39	A61M5	A61M39	A61M5	A61M5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multi-drug intravenous infusion apparatus which comprises a plurality of vials containing drugs to be provided to a patient; a fluid container containing a fluid to be mixed with said drugs; conduit means for leading drugs from said vials, mixed with fluid from said container, to means for introducing the drugs with said fluid into the patient's body, said conduit means comprising: a main section, a plurality of individual sections, each comprising at least a collapsible portion, connected to said vials and to said main section, a terminal section connected to said main section and to means for introducing the drugs with said fluid into the patient's body, and a fluid section leading fluid from said fluid container to said terminal section; a switching unit comprising a plurality of switches, each one associated with one of said individual sections, wherein each switch is capable of either blocking the drug flow in the associated section by exerting pressure whereby to collapse the collapsible portion thereof or allowing said flow by releasing said collapsible portion; and programmable control means for managing and regulating the operation of the apparatus.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEDUN LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEDUN LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIPETSKER LEONID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STRUZER ROMAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TVERSKOY GRIGORY N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VORONOV EVGENY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIPETSKER, LEONID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STRUZER, ROMAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TVERSKOY, GRIGORY, N.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VORONOV, EVGENY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to medical devices. More particularly, the invention
relates to an improved apparatus for infusing a plurality of drug dosages to a
patient.Apparatuses for intravenously infusing drugs to a patient are well known and
heavily used during many medical procedures. Infusion apparatuses are
characterized by having at least one drug dosage in a container, pumping
means, a liquid conduit for conveying a stream of liquid from the container to
the vein, and means for penetrating the body and injecting the drug into the
vein. An additional fluid container is provided, to hold the fluid which is
mixed with the drug and carries the drug to the vein. Apparatuses for timely
supplying one of a plurality of drugs to a patient are also known, and such
apparatuses are normally provided with a microcontroller for controlling the
operation of the device, and with display and keyboard means for
programming the apparatus in order to perform the desired sequence of
operations with the desired timing. Further, a system for centrally controlling
a plurality of infusion apparatuses has lately been developed. Such systems
enable a member of the medical personnel to simultaneously manage and
control the proper operation of several infusion apparatuses, wherein each
particular apparatus can be separately programmed for timely providing one 
or more of a plurality of different drug dosages to a patient. The system
includes a data connection such as by a data bus or a serial connection
between a plurality of apparatuses and between them and a central PC. The
programming of the system can be carried out either locally in each
apparatus, or centrally by the personnel controller at the main PC.An infusion apparatus for timely providing one of a plurality of drug dosages
to a patient is disclosed in US 5,317,506, and schematically shown in Fig. 1.
The apparatus comprises a processor 1 for regulating the operation of the
apparatus, and a plurality (normally up to 5) of drug vials 10. Each particular
drug vial is connected to its dedicated infusion pump 21, and each pump
outlet 8 is coupled to a main conduit 6. The main conduit 6 may, in some
cases, be included within a component known as a "connector". Said connector
has a plurality of individual fluid input ports, all leading to one main
channel, which in turn leads to one fluid output port. Throughout the
invention it should be understood that whenever the term "connector" is used,
it refers to a component which routes fluid from plurality of input ports each
one
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A multi-drug intravenous infusion apparatus comprising:

I - a plurality of vials (10) containing drugs to be provided to a patient;
II - a fluid container (7) containing a fluid to be mixed with said drugs;
III- conduits (54, 56, 59) for leading drugs from said vials, mixed with
fluid from said container, to means for introducing the drugs with said fluid

into the patient's body, said conduits comprising

a main section (56);
a plurality of individual sections (54), each comprising at least a
collapsible portion, connected to said vials and to said main section;
a terminal section (59) connected to said main section and to means for
introducing the drugs with said fluid into the patient's body; and
a conduit (9) leading fluid from said fluid container to said terminal
section;
IV - a switching unit (77) comprising a plurality of switches (58), each
one associated with one of said individual sections, wherein each switch is

capable of either blocking the drug flow in the associated section by exerting
pressure whereby to collapse the collapsible portion thereof or allowing said

flow by releasing said collapsbile portion, and motor means for actuating said
switches;
V - pump means (51) for drawing drugs from said vials and conveying
them, together with said fluid to said means for introducing the drugs with

said fluid into the patient's body, and
VI - a controller (1) for managing and regulating the operation of the
apparatus according to a program,

   
characterized in that
a - said conduits constitute a monolithic, exchangeable unit; 
b - said motor means are constituted by a single motor (70), operatively
connected to all said switches concurrently to operate all of them;
c - said pump means are constituted by a single pump (51) interposed
between said individual sections and said terminal section:
d- the conduit (9) leading fluid from the fluid container to the terminal
section is constituted by a pipe connecting said fluid container to a point in

said section downstream from said pump; and
e - manually controlled means are provided for an operator to
determine and to change the program of said controller as desired.
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the pump is an infusion pump
(51).
An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the infusion pump (51) is a
peristaltic infusion pump.
An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the infusion pump (51) is a
cassette infusion pump.
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein each switch (58) of the
switching unit (57) comprises:


a. a rigid body (95) displaceable towards a portion of one of the
individual sections of the conduit means (54), said body having an operative

position in which it exerts pressure on the collapsible portion of one of the
individual sections of the conduit means and collapses the same and an

inoperative position in which it releases said collapsible portion; and
b. means for selectively displacing said rigid body (95) to its operative
position to block the drug flow through said individual section, or return it to

its inoperative position to allow said drug flow.
An apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the means for selectively
displacing the rigid body (95) to its operative position or return it to its

inoperative position comprises an eccentric disc (94) rotatable between at
least a first angular position in which it contacts said rigid body with a

portion of its periphery having a minimum radius, and at least a second
angular position in which it contacts said rigid body with a portion of its

periphery having a maximum radius.
An apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the means for displacing the
rigid means of the switch is an electromagnet.
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the switching unit comprises:

a. a shaft (105) actuated by the motor of the unit;
b. at least two eccentric rotatable discs (74, 75) spaced apart on said
shaft, each disc having at least two angular positions;
c. for each eccentric disc, a body (95) contacting the perimeter of said
disc and displaceable by the rotation of said disc towards an individual

conduit section to apply pressure to the outer surface thereof, whereby to
collapse the same, or being allowed to become displaced away from said

conduit whereby to release the same, in order to block or permit flow in it
respectively.
An apparatus according to claim 8, wherein each eccentric disc defines at
least two states while advancing over its full perimeter.
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the manually controlled
means for an operator to determine and to change the program of the

controller is a local processor (1) provided with keyboard and display means. 
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein means are also provided for
connecting the apparatus to other infusion apparatuses, and/or to a central

control unit which controls plurality of infusion apparatuses.
An apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the switching unit also
comprises at least one position sensor for providing to the controller the

current state of the motor, and/or of the eccentric discs.
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at the most two drugs are
provided to the patient at any given time.
An apparatus according to claim 8, wherein gear means are provided
between the shaft and the motor.
An apparatus according to any one of claims 8 to 14, further comprising
means for manually advancing the motor in order to allow the replacement of

drug vials and conduits position.
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the programmable control
means for managing and regulating the operation of the apparatus comprises

a timer for performing timed operations.
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein each switch of the switching
unit comprises:


a. a rotatable eccentric disc (94) having an operative position in which
the perimeter of the disc is in contact and exerts pressure on a collapsible

portion of one of the individual sections of the conduit means and collapses
the same, and an inoperative position in which it is not in contact with said

portion and said collapsible portion is released. 
b. means for angularly rotating said eccentric disc to its operative angular
position to block the drug flow through said individual section, or return it to

its angular inoperative position to allow said drug flow.
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the switching unit and the
programmable controller are encased within a housing.
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the pump and the
programmable controller are encased within a single housing.
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the the manually controlled
means is an external Personal Computer (PC). 
Method according to claim 20, wherein flow paths are provided for all the
drugs, mixed with said fluid, to flow from the respective vial to means for

penetrating the patient's body, each of said flow paths comprising a portion 
that is not comprised in the flow paths of any other of said drugs, and which

comprises blocking all of said portions except the portion comprised in the
flow path of the selected drugs.
Method according to claim 21, wherein the flow paths are defined by
collapsible conduits, and which comprises blocking the portions of the flow

paths of the drugs that are not the selected ones by collapsing the respective
conduits.
Method according to claim 22, wherein the conduits of the drugs that are
not the selected ones are collapsed by exerting pressure on the outside of the

respective collapsible portion.
Method according to claim 20, wherein only one drug is selected at any
one time.
An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the programmable control
means for managing and regulating the operation of the apparatus comprises

a timer for performing timed operations.
An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein each switch of the switching
unit comprises:


a. A rotatable eccentric disc having an operative position in which the
perimeter of the disc is in contact and exerts pressure on a collapsible portion 

of one of the individual sections of the conduit means and collapses the same,
and an inoperative position in which it is not in contact with said portion and

said collapsible portion is released.
b. Means for angularly rotating said eccentric disc to its operative
angular position to block the drug flow through said individual section, or

return it to its angular inoperative position to allow said drug flow.
An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the switching unit and the
programmable control means are encased within a housing.
An apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the infusion pump and the
programmable control means are encased within a single housing.
An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the programmable control
means is an external Personal Computer (PC).
An apparatus according to claim 1, essentially as described and
illustrated.
A method according to claim 20, essentially as described and illustrated.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
