<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656123</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS FOR CHARACTERIZING HIGH TEMPERATURE SUPERCONDUCTING THIN FILM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R2726	H01P710	H01P710	G01R2726	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	H01P	H01P	G01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R27	H01P7	H01P7	G01R27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A dielectric resonator apparatus for measuring the parameters of high temperature superconducting thin film is disclosed having improved means for positioning the dielectric and substrates, holding the resonator components in place during use, suppressing undesirable modes, adjusting the magnetic dipole coupling, and coupling to an electrical circuit.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DU PONT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
E.I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOROTHY ROBERT GLENN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NGUYEN VIET XUAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHEN ZHI-YUAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOROTHY, ROBERT, GLENN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NGUYEN, VIET, XUAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHEN, ZHI-YUAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an apparatus which is 
used to measure high temperature superconducting thin 
film parameters such as surface resistance, critical 
current density, and critical magnetic field. The quality of superconductor thin films is 
described by several parameters: critical temperature, 
Tc, surface resistance, Rs, critical current density, 
Jc, critical magnetic field, Hc, etc. For microwave and 
millimeter wave applications, the most important 
parameter of a superconductor film is the surface 
resistance, Rs, at a given frequency, measured as a 
function of temperature, current density (or rf magnetic 
field). Measurement of these parameters accurately is 
not only necessary for superconductor material research 
and applications, but is also important for controlling 
the quality of manufacturing superconducting film. WO-A-93/09575 relevant only in accordance with 
Art 54(3) EPC discloses superconducting microwave resonators, devices 
for holding the resonators and their method of manufacture. The 
resonators use a superconducting film on substrates positioned on 
a dielectric and have 2 values as high as resonators formed of Nb, 
but operate at much higher temperatures. One method for measuring surface resistance is 
called "TE011 mode cavity end wall replacement", Muller 
et al., J. Superconductivity, Vol. 3, p. 235-242 (1990). 
It utilizes a copper cylindrical cavity operating at 
TE011 mode with one of its two end walls replaced by a 
superconductor film. The Rs of the film can be 
determined by comparing the Q-values of the cavity with 
the sample to the same cavity with a calibration 
standard film (such as niobium or copper) having a known 
Rs value. This method has the following shortcomings: 
1) it requires calibration, so it is not an absolute 
measurement; 2) the accuracy is limited by the fact that 
the Rs of the sample film under test only contributes a  
 
small portion of the loss in the cavity; 3) the 
measurable range of the Rs is limited at the low end by 
the poor sensitivity of this method. Another method for measuring Rs is called "parallel 
plate resonator" as disclosed in Taber, R., Rev. Sci. 
Instrum., Vol. 61, p. 2200-2206 (1990). It is 
constructed by two pieces of superconducting film 
separated by a thin dielectric spacer. The Rs of the 
superconductor film can be determined by measuring the 
Q-value of the resonator. This method has the following 
shortcomings: 1) because the spacer is very thin, it is 
very difficult to couple the rf power in and out of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A dielectric resonator apparatus having a 
dielectric element of sapphire (5) positioned between and in 

contact with two discrete films (17) of at least one 
superconducting material (15), all encased in an outer 

enclosure (25) having means for magnetic dipole coupling; 
said apparatus further having means (120) for positioning 

the sapphire dielectric element; means (100) for positioning the 
superconducting films (17), said films (17) each having a diameter 

greater than that of the dielectric element; means (100) for 
holding the sapphire dielectric and the superconducting films in 

place during operation and means for adjustment of the 
magnetic dipole coupling; characterized in that the 

resonator apparatus further comprises means for suppressing 
undesirable modes, said means comprising a microwave 

absorber contained in a groove or recess (190) surrounding 
the superconducting films (17). 
The resonator of claim 1 wherein the means for 
positioning the sapphire dielectric comprises two non-metallic 

sheets (120) each having a) a notch centered on 
one edge in size and shape suitable for being juxtaposed 

against the sapphire dielectric, b) a hole (130) to permit 
fastening in place with a dowel pin (115), and c) chamfers 

(135) at the corners of the edge containing the notch. 
The resonator of claim 1 wherein the means for 
positioning the sapphire dielectric comprises a non-metallic 

sheet (120) having a) an opening (130) in size and shape 
through which the sapphire dielectric will pass with minimal 

clearance and b) chamfers (135) at two corners. 
The resonator of claim 2 or 3 wherein the sheet 
comprises a polymeric film having a dielectric constant of 

no greater than 4.  
 
The resonator of claim 2 or 3 wherein the sheet 
is polyimide Kapton 300HN®. 
The resonator of claim 1 wherein the means for 
positioning the sapphire dielectric comprises a plurality of 

screws (210) inserted through openings in the outer 
enclosure, said screws having non-metallic tips (215). 
The resonator of claim 6 wherein the screws have 
sapphire tips (215). 
The resonator of claim 1 wherein the means for 
positioning the sapphire dielectric comprises a) a device 

comprising a platform (223) to which is attached 
perpendicularly an extension having a recess (225) into 

which one end of the dielectric fits, b) a hole (235) 
running through said extension and platform through which 

a vacuum can be created to hold the dielectric in place in 
the recess, and c) at least two additional holes (230) for 

dowel pins for fastening the device to the outer enclosure. 
The resonator of claim 1 wherein the means for 
positioning the superconducting films comprises a drawer (40) 

of non-ferrous metal having a) a recess (100) for holding 
the superconducting film (17) above the drawer surface, b) 

a grooved recess (105) for holding the microwave frequency 
absorber; c) at least two holes (102) for screws (75); and 

d) at least two holes (80) for dowel pins (115). 
The resonator of claim 1 wherein the means for 
positioning the superconducting films comprises a plate to 

which is attached perpendicularly an extension having a) a 
recess (185) for holding the superconducting film (17) above 

the plate surface, b) a recess (190) for holding the 
microwave frequency absorber, and said plate having a) at 

least two holes for screws, b) at least two tapped holes 
for securing the resonator to a support device, and c) at 

least one slot on the side of the plate opposite the  
 

extension. 
The resonator of claim 1 wherein the means for 
pos
itioning the superconducting films comprises a) a piston 
(35) having aa) a recess (185) to hold the superconducting 

film (17) above the piston surface, ab) a recess (190) to 
hold the microwave frequency absorber, ac) a hole (180) 

running through said piston through which a vacuum can be 
created to hold the sample in place, and ad) a counterbore 

(195), and b) a piston locator (52) in the form of a flat 
sheet containing an opening (205) through which the piston 

(35) will pass with minimal clearance and at least two holes 
(200) for dowel pins (70) for fastening said piston locator 

to the outer enclosure. 
The resonator of claim 11 wherein the piston 
diameter is such that the piston will fit into the outer 

enclosure with sufficient clearance to permit the passage of 
a cooling gas. 
The resonator of claim 1 wherein the means for 
holding the sapphire dielectric and superconducting film in 

place during operation comprises at least one helical 
compression spring (240) secured to either a) a top plate 

(30) of the outer enclosure or b) the top of a piston (35) 
holding the superconducting film, said spring being 

compressed when the top plate is in place. 
The resonator of claim 1 wherein the means for 
holding the sapphire dielectric and superconducting film in 

place during operation comprises a plate (245) of material 
which compensates for thermal contractions at cryogenic 

temperature. 
The resonator of claim 14 wherein the plate is 
Teflon®.  

 
The resonator of claim 1 wherein the means for 
holding the sapphire dielectric and superconducting film in 

place during operation comprises a plurality of disc springs 
(50) stacked between the means for holding the 

superconducting film and the top of the outer enclosure. 
The resonator of claim 1 wherein the means for 
adjusting the magnetic dipole comprises adjusting the extent 

of the penetration of cables into the resonator enclosure 
by inserting or removing shims (32) at flanges on a 

connector employed for the magnetic dipole coupling. 
The resonator of claim 1 further comprising a means 
for coupling to an electrical circuit which is a connector 

having a) a transition element (60) comprising an 
electrical conductor tube having an outer diameter which can 

be mated with a commercial connector and an inner diameter 
which can be mated with a cable having an outside diameter 

of a maximum of 0.94mm, and b) an insulator comprising a 
dielectric ring having an outer diameter equal to the outer 

diameter of the transition element and an inner diameter 
less than the diameter of the center conductor of the 

connector. 
The resonator of claim 18 wherein the transition 
element is oxygen free copper and the insulator is Teflon®. 
The dielectric resonator apparatus of claim 1, 
further comprising means for moving the resonator 

comprising the sapphire (5) to test 
the superconducting films at multiple discrete areas. 
A resonator of claim 20 wherein the means for 
moving the resonator comprises (a) a plate (460) capable of 

rotation which holds a discrete piece of the superconducting 
film (455) on its underside, (b) a rod (430) fastened to the 

bottom of the resonator (440) at one end and to an actuator 
(420) at the other end that reciprocates the resonator in a 

direction perpendicular to the film on the plate.  
 
The resonator of claim 21 wherein the sample is 
held to the plate (460) by means of a vacuum applied through 

a hole in the plate. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
