<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648342</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR CALIBRATING AN MWD ELECTROMAGNETIC LOGGER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01V328	G01V1300	G01V318	G01V1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01V	G01V	G01V	G01V	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01V3	G01V13	G01V3	G01V13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A calibration fixture for an MWD logging tool consists of a plurality of concentric co-planar conductive calibration loops (22, 24), mounted on a carrier disk of insulate material (16). The disk positions the calibration loops around the logging tool mandrel coaxially. The logging tool supports conventional transmitter(s) and receiver(s). The calibration loops are terminated with a multiple-tap impedance quantizer (34) for discretely varying the impedance of the calibration loops. When a transmitter is activated to emit an electromagnetic signal, the calibration loops are excited to re-radiate a portion of that signal into the receivers with an intensity that is a function of the loop impedance thereby to simulate the effects of formations having known resistivities.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WESTERN ATLAS INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WESTERN ATLAS INTERNATIONAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZHOU QIANG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZHOU, QIANG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an apparatus and method for calibrating an electromagnetic 
logging tool such as an induction logger,that is used to measure the conductivity of the 
surrounding formation while a borehole is being drilled therethrough. The apparatus is 
particularly useful as a secondary standard for field use in testing MWD loggers. Electromagnetic (induction) logging tools for measuring the electrical properties of 
subsurface earth formations are well known. The logging tool may be run into a borehole 
on a wireline after the hole has been drilled. Alternatively the tool may be incorporated 
into the lower end of the drill string, near the bit so as to log the formation parameters 
while the borehole is being drilled (i.e. Measurement While Drilling or MWD). The 
advantage of the latter method is that the tool can measure formation parameters before the 
borehole sidewall has become contaminated with the drilling fluids. Furthermore, the 
desired measurements are gathered in near real time rather than days or weeks later as is 
the case with wireline logging. Typical induction tools consist essentially of a transmitter coil and two receiver 
coils that are mounted concentrically on a mandrel. The two receiver coils may be 
separated by, perhaps, 30 cm and the transmitter coil may be about 0.7 m from the nearest 
receiver coil. In some tools, a second transmitter is provided at the opposite end of the 
receiver array. The respective coils commonly consist of several turns of wire of a suitable 
size that are insulated from the mandrel. An electronics module is incorporated into the 
tool to provide power to the transmitter coil and to detect the signals in the receiver coils. 
Means are furnished to either store the measured formation parameters or to transmit the 
gathered data to surface equipment, or both. At timed intervals such as every 100 milliseconds (ms), a 1- or 2-mHz sinusoidal 
signal at a potential of about 200 volts is launched into the transmitter coil. If two 
transmitter coils are provided, the transmitters are excited in alternate cycles and the 
received signals resulting alternate cycles are averaged. The electromagnetic field radiates  
 
outwardly from the transmitter, through the formation surrounding the borehole, to each 
of the receivers in turn. The received signals are very weak, on the order of 1 to 500 µv. 
The phase difference between the signals received by the respective receivers, as well as 
the amplitude ratio are parameters that are a function of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A calibration device for use with an 
electromagnetic logging tool, the logging tool including 

an elongated mandrel (12), having a longitudinal axis, 
coaxially supporting at least one transmitter (T1, T2) 

and two spaced-apart receivers (R1, R2) mounted remotely 
from the transmitter, the device(16) comprising means 

(22, 24) for receiving radiation from the transmitter 
(T1) and for radiating the received radiation to the 

receivers (R1, R2), characterised in that the device is a 
passive device which comprises: 


an insulating support means (16) removably securable 
around said mandrel between said transmitter and said 

receivers; 
a plurality of concentric coplanar conductive 
calibration loops (22, 24) mounted on said support means 

for receiving radiation from said transmitter and for re-radiating 
the received radiation to said receivers whilst 

said calibration loops are mounted coaxially with respect 
to said transmitter and said receivers; and 
impedance quantizing means (34) for terminating each 
one of said conductive calibration loops (22, 24) in 

discrete impedance steps such that the radiation re-radiated 
to said receivers (R1, R2) is attenuated by said 

quantizing means (34) to simulate, when said tool is 
under calibration, the signal attenuation effects of 

earth formations having different resistivities. 
A device as defined by claim 1, wherein the 
quantifying means comprises a multiple-tap impedance 

means (34). 
A device as defined by claim 2, wherein each 
said impedance quantizing means (34) comprises a variable 

series resistance (R). 
A device as defined by claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein 
each said impedance quantizing means (34) includes a 

fixed series capacitor (C). 
A device as defined by claim 1, 2, 3 or 4, and  
 

comprising an aperture (18) in said support means (16) 
within which said mandrel can be located to maintain the 

loops coaxial with the receivers (R1, R2). 
A device as defined by any one of the preceding 
claims, in combination with said logging tool, the loops 

being mounted coaxially with the receivers. 
A device as defined by claim 6, wherein the 
logging tool is air-hung. 
A device as defined by claim 6 or 7, wherein 
said calibration loops (22, 24) are located midway 

between said receivers (R1, R2). 
A device as defined by claim 6, 7 or 8, wherein 
said mandrel (12) is electrically conductive. 
A method for calibrating an electromagnetic 
logging tool prior to its deployment for use in 

measurement-while-drilling operations, said tool 
including at least one transmitter (T1) and a pair of 

receivers (R1, R2) all of which are concentrically 
mounted in spaced-apart configuration on a conductive 

mandrel (12), the method comprising interposing an 
electromagnetic radiator (22, 24) between said 

transmitter (T1) and said receivers (R1, R2) and exciting 
said electromagnetic radiator by an electromagnetic field 

radiated from said transmitter, the method being 
characterised by varying, in discrete steps, the 

impedance value of said electromagnetic radiator so that 
it irradiates said receivers at selected discrete 

intensity levels, the discrete intensity levels 
simulating the signal-attenuation effects of 

electromagnetic signals propagating through earth 
formations having different known resistivities thereby 

to quantify receiver output signals as a function of said 
known resistivities. 
A method as defined by claim 10 comprising: 

measuring the amplitude ratios of the output signals 
from said receivers as a function of said discrete 

impedance values;  
 
providing a calibration table of formation 
resistivity vs. true amplitude ratio as a function of the 

discrete impedance values; and 
comparing the measured amplitude ratios with the 
true amplitude ratios corresponding to each selected 

discrete impedance value to determine a correction factor 
to be applied to the measured receiver output-signal 

amplitude ratios. 
A method as defined by claim 10 or 11, 
comprising: 


measuring the phase-angle differences of the output 
signals from said receivers as a function of said 

discrete impedance value; 
providing a calibration table of formation 
resistivity vs. true phase-angle difference corresponding 

to each selected discrete impedance value to determine a 

correction factor to be applied to the measured receiver 
output-signal phase-shift differences. 
A method as defined by claim 10, 11 or 12, 
comprising: 


mounting a plurality of co-planar conductive 
calibration loops (22, 24), as said electromagnetic 

radiator, around said mandrel (12) concentrically with 
the transmitter (T1) and receivers (R1, R2); 
closing each said calibration loop with a series 
impedance; 
radiating an electromagnetic field from said 
transmitter; 
changing the series impedance value in discrete 
steps for attenuating the level of the electromagnetic 

field that is re-radiated into said receivers to simulate 
the signal-attenuation effects of earth formations having 

different known resistivities. 
A method as defined by claim 13, wherein the 
changeable impedance is provided by a series resistance. 
A method as defined by claim 14, wherein the 
resistance is a multiple-tap resistance. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
