<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655143</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VALIDATION OF OPTICAL RANGING OF A TARGET SURFACE IN A CLUTTERED ENVIRONMENT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01B1100	G01S1706	G01B1100	G01C1100	G01C306	G01S1700	G01C306	G01C1100	G01S1793	G01S1746	G01S1789	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01B	G01S	G01B	G01C	G01C	G01S	G01C	G01C	G01S	G01S	G01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01B11	G01S17	G01B11	G01C11	G01C3	G01S17	G01C3	G01C11	G01S17	G01S17	G01S17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
To provide a system for the optical ranging of a selected point (B) on a target surface (20) irradiated with light (14) while avoiding false signals from other sources in a cluttered environment, the system employs a combination of the triangulation ranging technique with the Biris ranging technique, i.e. imaging onto a position sensitive protodetector (13) through an apertured mask (18). The respective equations for range that apply to the respective techniques are combined to generate an equation that is true only for target surface points that are directly on the light beam, hence enabling rejection of false signals on the basis of those that fail to satisfy this equation. The system permits the light beam to be directed onto the target surface from a wide range of locations relative to the detector.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANADA NAT RES COUNCIL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL OF CANADA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLAIS FRANCOIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLAIS, FRANCOIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a system for the optical 
ranging of points on a target surface and in particular to 
the validation of such ranging in a cluttered environment, 
i.e. an environment containing at least one other surface 
in the general vicinity of the target surface or some 
other perturbation such as light coming from another 
source, that can be seen by the detector and may interfere 
with the ranging process by generating false signals. Two popular techniques currently in use for optical 
ranging of a target surface are known, respectively, as 
the standard optical triangulation system and the Biris 
(bi-iris) system, the latter employing an apertured mask 
in a converging lens system of an imaging device having a 
position sensitive detector, e.g. a CCD camera. These systems are described and compared in F. Blais 
et al. (88), i.e. "Practical Considerations for a Design 
of a High Precision 3-D Laser Scanner System", published 
in Optomechanical and Electro-optical Design of Industrial 
Systems, SPIE Vol. 959, 1988, pp 225-246, and also in F. 
Blais et al. (91), i.e. "Optical Range Image Acquisition 
for the Navigation of a Mobile Robot", published in the 
Proceedings of the 1991 IEEE International Conference on 
Robotics and Automation, Sacramento, California, April 9-11, 
1991. The Biris system had previously been reported 
by M. Rioux et al. (86) in "Compact Three-Dimensional 
Camera For Robotic Applications", published in the Journal 
of the Optical Society of America A, Vol. 3, p 1518, 
September 1986, and in M. Rioux U.S. patent 4,645,347  
 
issued February 24, 1987. All these documents are hereby 
incorporated herein by reference. An advantage of the Biris system is its small size 
and the robustness of the range sensor. On the other 
hand, the triangulation system can achieve greater 
accuracy than the Biris system, but is very sensitive to 
the condition of the environment. It operates well in a 
highly controlled environment, but fails in more complex 
situations. For example, if the target surface is 
reflective and reflects light onto one or more non-target 
objects in the vicinity of the target surface, or there 
are other perturbations, such as reflections or light from 
an open window, that enter the field of view of the 
camera, the detector becomes confused and cannot 
discriminate between the true target surface and false 
signals from the other objects or perturbations. The 
Biris system is better than the triangulation system in 
this respect, because it uses the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An imaging system comprising 

(a) a position sensitive light detector (13); 
(b) lens means (10) for imaging a selected point (B) on a 
target surface (20) onto said detector; 
(c) means for generating at least one light beam (14) that 
irradiates said surface and occupies or traces out a 

narrow strip; 
(d) the lens means having an optical axis and a mask (18) 
perpendicular to the optical axis, the mask having at 

least two spaced apart aperture portions (16) for 
forming on the detector image spots (b1, b2) of the 

selected point, the range of the selected point being 
a function of the spacing b between said spots; 
(e) computer means (28) for scanning pixels of said 
detector to extract data on the range and location of 

the selected point, 
 
   characterized in that 


(f) the direction of irradiation by said at least one 
light beam is such that said range is also a function 

of P, where P is the mean pixel position on the 
detector of said image spots, whereby P = g(b) + n(), 

where g(b) is a monotonic function of b and n is a 
function of an inclination  of said light beam to the 

optical axis; and 
(g) the computer means (28) selects values for b and P 
that substantially satisfy this equation, such 

selected values representing the true range and 
location of the selected point. 
An imaging system according to claim 1, wherein 

(a) said optical axis extends in a direction Z, and the 
position sensitive light detector has a series of 

pixels extending in at least one direction X 
perpendicular to the direction Z, the imaging of the 

selected point on the target surface by the lens means  
 

generating first data on the coordinate of said 
selected point in the X direction corresponding to said location ; 
(b) the aperture portions of the mask are spaced apart 
from each other in at least the X direction whereby 

the spacing b provides second data on said selected 
point in the direction Z corresponding to said true range ; 
(c) the computer means scans the detector pixels in the X 
direction to extract said first and second data; and 
(d) the means for generating at least one light beam is 
displaced at least in the X direction from a location 

midway between said aperture portions. 
An imaging system according to claim 2, wherein the Z 
coordinate of the selected point on the target surface is 

given by 

Z = 
1
L
-1
 - kb
 
and also by 


Z = 
1
k'P + L'
 
where L, L', k and k' are constants or a range of 

constants, 

L being the distance in the Z direction between the 
mask plane and a theoretical reference plane parallel to 

and spaced from the mask plane, 
k being given by 

k
 = 
L - f
fDL
f being the focal length of the lens system, 
D being the separation in the X direction between the 
two aperture portions of the mask, 
L' being given by  
 


L'= 
tan
d
 
   and 
k' being given by 

k'
 = 
L - f
fdL
, 
 being the angle of inclination of the light beam 
relative to the Z direction, and 
d being the separation in the X direction at the mask 
plane between the light beam plane and said location 

midway between the aperture portions. 
An imaging system according to claim 2, wherein 

(f) the pixels of said detector also extend in a Y 
direction perpendicular to both the X and Z 

directions, and the means for scanning the pixels 
includes means for scanning them in the Y direction 

to generate further data on the coordinate of the 
selected point on the target surface in the Y 

direction; 
(g) the mask has at least three aperture portions 
(30-33, 40-42), two of a first pair (31, 32; 41, 42) 

of which portions are spaced from each other in at 
least the X direction and two of another pair (30, 

31; 40, 41) of which portions are spaced from each 
other in at least the Y direction; and 
(h) the light means includes means for irradiating said 
target surface including said selected point with at 

least one further beam (34, 35, 38, 39, 43-48) that 
occupies or traces out a narrow strip to define at 

least one further beam plane inclined to the first 
beam plane. 
An imaging system according to claim 4, wherein the 
mask has four aperture portions (30-33) arranged in two 

mutually perpendicular pairs spaced apart respectively in 
the X and Y directions. 
An imaging system according to claim 5, wherein said 
two beams define planes extend at right angles to each 

other. 
An imaging system according to claim 6, wherein the 
planes of said two beams extend respectively in the X and 

Y directions. 
An imaging system according to claim 5, wherein said 
two beams are different from each other in a distinguishable 

characteristic, the aperture portions of 
respective said pairs of aperture portions containing 

filter means (36, 37) for passing only light with a 
respective such characteristic. 
An imaging system according to claim 4, wherein the 
mask has three aperture portions (40-42) and the light 

means irradiates the target surface with three beams 
(43-45) occupying or tracing out respective narrow strips 

extending in mutually inclined directions. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
