<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647382</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR ENCODING A VIDEO SIGNAL HAVING MULTI-LANGUAGE CAPABILITIES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B2010	G11B2010	H03M700	H03M700	H04H2062	H04H2063	H04N576	H04N576	H04N591	H04N591	H04N592	H04N592	H04N704	H04N704	H04N708	H04N708	H04N7081	H04N7081	H04N724	H04N724	H04N726	H04N726	H04N9802	H04N9802	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	H03M	H03M	H04H	H04H	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B20	G11B20	H03M7	H03M7	H04H20	H04H20	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N9	H04N9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An audio/video system includes an encoder (10) for receiving an input video signal (13), a first audio signal (14), and a plurality of second audio signals (15). The encoder (10) combines the input video signal (13) and the plurality of second audio signals (15) to produce an encoded video signal (16). A decoder (12) separates the plurality of second audio signals (15) from the encoded video signal (16) leaving an unencoded video signal (14). The decoder (12) then combines each of the plurality of second audio signals (15) with a reproduction of the first audio signal (14) so as to form a plurality of combined audio signals (18). A signal delivery system (100, 103 and 104) coupled to the decoder (12) includes a selction (100) device which allows at least one of the plurality of the combined audio signals (18) to be played with the unencoded video signal (14).
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR ENCODING A VIDEO SIGNAL HAVING MULTI-LANGUAGE CAPABILITIESFIELD QF TEE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to the field of video signals and more particularly to a method and apparatus for encoding and decoding a video signal having multi-language capabilities.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONIn places where multiple languages are spoken, there is a need to provide movies, prerecorded television programs, educational videos as well as many other forms of video/audio programing in multiple languages to accommodate the multi- lingual viewing audience. Most often it desired to have the capability to play back the multiple languages simultaneously with a single video signal. One technique used to achieve this result is to use different viewing channels for the different channels. A separate prerecorded video tape is generated for each language. Each tape contains the same video information but necessarily has a different audio signal for each desired language. The tapes are individually played and broadcasted on different channels The viewer selects the channel according to the language he wishes to hear. This method is quite obviously inefficient as it requires a number of video playback means and available television channels or frequencies equal to the number of languages in question.Briggs, U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 07/411,214 entitled Multi-Language Recording and Reproducing System describes a multiple language system wherein a plurality of 

audio tracks, each representing a different language, are encoded into the video signal using frequency modulation techniques. However, that method is disadvantageous because it employs analog techniques which compromise video quality and produce an encoded signal incompatible or marginally compatible with several classes of important communications channels. 
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONIt is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a video system in which multiple languages can be encoded within the bandwidth of a standard video signal. It is another object of the present invention to provide a multiple language system that can operate in conjunction with existing videotape formats and existing videotape players without modification of either the format or the player.It is another object of the present invention to provide a multiple language broadcast system which provides a selectable multi-lingual capability without modification of the bandwidth of the broadcast signal.It is further an object of the present invention
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. An audio-video system for encoding and decoding a video signal and a plurality of corresponding audio signals, comprising: encoder means for receiving an input video signal, a first audio signal, and a plurality of second audio signals corresponding to said input video signal, said encoder means combining said input video signal and said plurality of second audio signals to produce an encoded video signal but leaving said first audio signal substantially unchanged, said encoder means outputting said first audio signal and said encoded video signal; audio-video signal communication means for receiving said first audio signal and said encoded video signal from said encoder means, said communication means outputting said first audio signal and said encoded video signal in a predetermined manner; and decoder means coupled to said signal communication means for receiving said, encoded video signal and said first audio signal, said decoder means separating said plurality of second audic -g ._ 
£
rom said encoded video signal so as to form an uneri- d v; ignal and combining at least one of said plura y of - audio signals with a reproduction of said first udio ε 1 so as to form at least one combined audio 


signal, said decoder means outputting said unencoded video signal and said combined audio signal.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a signal delivery means coupled to said decoder means, said signal delivery means including a selection means such that at least one of said plurality of said combined audio signals may be played with said unencoded video signal.
3. The system of claim 1 wherein said encoder means forms said encoded video signal by replacing selected portions of said input video signal with said plurality of second audio signals.
4. The system of claim 3 wherein said video signal represents a video picture made up of a plurality of horizontal scan lines and said selected portions of said video signal correspond to a predetermined number of said scan lines.
5. The system of claim 4 wherein said scan lines are located at a top portion of said video picture.
6. The system of claim 4 wherein said predetermined number of scan lines are equal to the number of said second audio signals.
7. The system of claim 4 wherein said predetermined number is twelve. 


 8. The system of claim 6 wherein said portion of said video signal corresponding to a selected scan line exclusively stores information from one of said second audio signals.
9. The system of claim 1 wherein said first audio signal is a high bandwidth signal, and said plurality of second audio signals are low bandwidth signals.
10. The system of claim 1 wherein said encoder means comprises: input means for receiving said input video signal and said plurality of second audio signals; synchronization means responsive to said input video signal for sensing timing signals contained in said input video signal; audio signal linking means responsive to said plurality of second audio signals for converting said plurality of audio signals into a stream of information; data storage means operatively coupled to said audio signal linking means for storing said stream of information; timing means responsive to said synchronization means and in communication with said storage means, said timing means triggering a release of said stream of information from said storage means in discrete bursts of data responsive to said synchronization means; and video signal combining means coupled to said input means and said data storage means for combining said bursts of data into said input video signal in a predetermined manner so as to 


form said encoded video signal, said combining means then outputting said encoded video signal.
11. The system of claim 10 wherein said synchronization means comprises a phase-locked loop.
12. The system of claim 11 wherein said phase-locked loop further includes a voltage controlled oscillator.
13. The system of claim 10 wherein said audio signal linking means comprises a time division multiplexer.
14. The video system of claim 13 wherein said audio signal linking means further comprises an analog-to-digital converter for converting said stream of information from the analog domain to the digital domain.
15. The system of claim 14 wherein said data storage means comprises a digital memory.
16. The system of claim 14 further comprising a digital- to-analog converter coupled between said data storage means and said video signal combining means for converting said bursts of data from the digital domain to the analog domain.
17. The system of claim 1 wherein said signal communication means further includes data storage means for storing said encoded video signal. 


 18. The system of claim 1 wherein said audio-video signal communication means comprises a video cassette player.
19. The system of claim 1 wherein said audio-video signal communication means comprises a satellite communication system.
20. The system of Claim 1 wherein said audio-video signal communication means comprises a video disk player.
21. The system of claim 1 wherein said decoder means comprises: input means for receiving said encoded video signal and sai first audio signal, said encoded video signal having segments with said plurality of second audio signals encoded thereon; timing means responsive to said encoded video signal for identifying said segments of said encoded video signal containin said plurality of second audio signals; memory means coupled to said timing means and said input means for storing said segments of said encoded video signal containing said plurality of second audio signals; audio signal separating means coupled to said memory means and responsive to said timing means for separating said pluralit of audio signals; audio signal combining means coupled to said audio signal separating means and said input means for receiving said separated audio signals and said first audio signal, said audio signal combining means combining a reproduction of said first
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


audio signal with each of said plurality of second audio signals; and output means for outputting said video signal and said plurality of combined audio signals.
22. The system of claim 20 further comprising line blanking means coupled to said timing means for recording a blank signal over said storage segments of said restored video signal prior to outputting said restored video signal.
23. The system of claim 20 wherein said audio signal separating means comprises a demultiplexer.
24. The system of claim 20 wherein said timing means includes a phase-locked loop.
25. An apparatus for encoding a plurality of audio signals corresponding to a video signal according to a predetermined format, comprising: input means for receiving said video signal and said plurality of audio signals; synchronization means responsive to said video signal for sensing existing storage intervals of said video signal; audio signal linking means responsive to said plurality of audio signals for converting said plurality of audio signals int a stream of information; 


 data storage means operatively coupled to said audio signal linking means for storing said stream of information; timing means responsive to said synchronization means and in communication with said storage means, said timing means triggering a release of said stream of information from said storage means in discrete bursts of data responsive to said synchronization means; and video signal combining means coupled to said input means and said data storage means for combining said bursts of data into said video signal in a predetermined format, so as to form an encoded video signal, said combining means then outputting said encoded video signal.
26. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein said synchronization means comprises a phase-locked loop.
27. The apparatus of claim 26 wherein said phase-locked loop includes a voltage control oscillator.
28. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein said audio signal linking means comprises a multiplexer.
29. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein said audio signal linking means further comprises a digital-to-analog converter fo converting said stream of information to the digital domain. 


 30. The system of claim 25 wherein said data storage means comprises a digital memory.
31. The apparatus of claim 25 further comprising a digital- to-analog converter coupled between said data storage means and said video signal combining means for converting said bursts of data from the digital domain to the analog domain.
*
32. A device for decoding an encoded video signal having segments with a plurality of audio signals encoded thereon, said apparatus comprising: input means for receiving said encoded video signal and a music and effects audio signal; timing means responsive to said encoded video signal for identifying said segments of said video signal containing said plurality of audio signals; memory means coupled to said timing means and said input means for storing said segments of said encoded video signal containing said plurality of audio signals; audio signal separating means coupled to said memory means and responsive to said timing means for separating said pluralit of audio signals from said encoded video signal so as to form an unencoded video signal; audio signal combining means coupled to said audio signal separating means and said input means for receiving said separated audio signals and said music and effects audio signal.
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


said combining means combining said music and effects audio signal with each said plurality of audio signals; and output means for outputting said unencoded video signal and said plurality of combined audio signals.
33. The device of claim 32 further comprising line blankin means coupled to said timing means for writing a blank signal over said storage segments of said video signal prior to outputting said unencoded video signal.
34. The audio-video system of claim 33 wherein said audio signal separating means comprises a demultiplexer.
35. The device of claim 32 wherein said timing means includes a phase-locked loop.
36. An audio-video system for encoding and decoding a vide signal and a plurality of corresponding audio signals, said vide signal representing a video picture made up of a plurality of horizontal scan lines, said system comprising: encoder means for receiving an input video signal, a first audio signal, and a plurality of second audio signals corresponding to said input video signal, said encoder means replacing portions of said input video signal which correspond t preselected scan lines of said video picture with said plurality of second audio signals so as to form an encoded video signal bu leaving said first audio signal substantially unchanged, said 


encoder means outputting said first audio signal and said encoded video signal; audio-video signal communication means for receiving said first audio signal and said encoded video signal from said encoder means, said communication means outputting said first audio signal and said encoded video signal in a predetermined manner, said signal communication means further including a data storage means for storing said encoded video signal; and decoder means coupled to said signal communication means for receiving said encoded video signal and said first audio signal, said decoder means separating said plurality of second audio signals from said encoded video signal so as to form an unencode video signal and combining each of said plurality of second audio signals with a reproduction of said first audio signal so as to form a plurality of combined audio signals, said decoder means outputting said unencoded video signal and said plurality of combined audio signals; and a signal delivery means coupled to said decoder means, said delivery means including a selection means such that at least on of said plurality of said combined audio signals may be played with said restored video signal.
37. The system of claim 36 wherein the number of second audio signals is twelve said preselected scan lines are the uppermost twelve scan lines of said video picture.
SUBSTITUT 


 38. The system of claim 36 wherein said first audio signal corresponds to the music and effects portion of a complete audio signal and wherein said plurality of second audio signals correspond to a plurality of languages, such that each of said languages may be combined with music and effects signal to form said complete audio signal.
39. A method for encoding a plurality of audio signals representative of audio in different languages which corresponds to an input video signal having an appropriate storage intervals, said plurality of audio signals being encoded within the bandwidth of a standard format for composite video signals, said method comprising the steps of: receiving said input video signal, said music and effects audio signal, and said plurality of audio signals; time division multiplexing said plurality of audio signals so as to produce a continuous stream of digital information; storing the continuous stream of digital information in a memory device; locating preselected storage intervals in said input video signal; releasing information from said memory device in bursts and passing the information through a digital-to-analog converter; inserting said bursts of data into said preselected storage intervals in said video signal;
SU 


 wherein the audio signal representative of audio in different languages are encoded into the video in appropriate storage intervals.
40. A method for decoding an encoded video signal having intervals with a plurality of audio signals encoded thereon, said method comprising the steps of: receiving said encoded video signal and a music and effects audio signal; locating said intervals of the video signal containing the plurality of audio signals; writing said intervals to a memory storage device in bursts corresponding to said intervals of the video signal; removing said audio signals from said video signal so as to form an unencoded video signal; passing said stored audio signals through a demultiplexer to an audio signal combining device; inputting said music and effects audio signal to the audio signal combining device; combing said music and effects audio signal with each of said plurality of audio signals; transmitting said unencoded video signal and combined plurality of audio signals to a predetermined destination.
41. The method of claim 40 further comprising the step of writing a blank signal over the intervals where the plurality of audio signals were stored. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
