<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649252</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Video camera using a serial communication between the control and the processing circuits
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N5232	H04N5232	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N5	H04N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A video camera is provided with a processing 
circuit for processing a picked-up image signal outputted 

from an image sensor, a control circuit for controlling an 
image pickup action by transferring signals with the 

processing circuit, a serial communication circuit 
disposed between the control circuit and the processing 

circuit for controlling the transfer of signals between 
the control circuit and the processing circuit. 
 
The video camera is also provided with a change-over circuit for 
changing over an order of transmission of communication data within one 

unit to be transmitted by the serial communication circuit and/or a 
speed change-over circuit for changing over the speed of data 

transmission by effecting the data transmission at different speeds on 
either side of a buffer disposed midway in the serial communication 

circuit and arranged to store signal data. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUDA HIROFUMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUDA, HIROFUMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a video camera which 
controls an image pickup action by serial communication. The control operation of every electronic 
apparatus has recently come to be carried out by using a 
microcomputer. In the case of a video camera, a control 
device of it includes a microcomputer. The control device 
is generally arranged to conduct serial communication with 
each applicable processing circuit for various purposes. 
For example, the constant of a signal processing circuit 
is changed. Data is taken into the control device from a 
white balance circuit, a light measuring circuit, an 
automatic focusing circuit, etc. An image pickup action 
is controlled according to such data. Fig. 1 is a block diagram showing by way of 
example the arrangement of the conventional video camera. 
The video camera includes a focusing lens 1 which is 
arranged to be movable in the direction of an optical 
axis. An iris 2 is arranged in rear of the focusing lens 
1 to adjust the quantity of incident light. An image 
sensor 3 is arranged in rear of the iris 2 to have an 
optical image of an object of shooting formed thereon and 
to photo-electrically convert the optical image into a 
video signal. The image sensor 3 is connected to a 
sample-and-hold (hereinafter referred to as CDS) circuit 4  
 
which is arranged to sample and hold the video signal 
obtained from the image sensor 3. To the CDS circuit 4 is 
connected an analog-to-digital (A/D) converter 5 which is 
arranged to convert the output of the CDS circuit 4 into a 
digital video signal. The A/D converter 5 is connected to 
a signal processing circuit 6, a light measuring circuit 7 
and an automatic focusing circuit 8 which are connected in 
parallel to each other. The signal processing circuit 6 
is arranged to set a circuit gain and to convert the video 
signal into a TV signal by forming luminance and 
chrominance signals through various processes such as a 
gamma correction process, a blanking process, a 
synchronizing signal adding process, etc. The light 
measuring circuit 7 is arranged to detect the quantity of 
light obtained when an image is picked up. The automatic 
focusing circuit 8 is arranged to extract a focus signal, 
such as a high frequency component of the video signal. The video camera has a microcomputer 12 arranged 
to perform overall control over an image pickup action. 
To the microcomputer 12 are connected a clock generator 25 
which is arranged to output clock pulses, an iris driver 9 
arranged to control the iris 2, and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A video camera comprising: 

processing means (6, 7, 8) for processing a picked-up 
image signal output from an image pickup means (1 to 4), 
control means (12) for controlling an image pickup 
action of said image pickup means (1 to 4) by transferring 

control data and address data to and receiving communication 
data from said processing means (6, 7, 8), said control means having a predetermined 

order of data transmission within one 
block unit, and 
serial communication means (18, 20) disposed between 
said control means (12) and said processing means (6, 7, 8) 

for providing the transfer of said data between said 
processing means (6, 7, 8) and said control means (12), 
  
  

 
   wherein said processing means (6, 7, 8), serial 

communication means (18, 20) and a data order 
changing means (21, 22, 24) are integrated on a one-chip 

integrated circuit (100) for video signal processing of said 
video camera and said control means (12) is provided externally
 
   to said one-chip integrated circuit (100), 

said data order changing means (21, 22, 24) 
changing the order of data transmission within one block 

unit to be transmitted by said serial communication means 
according to an instruction of said control means (12),
 
   wherein said data order changing means 

(21, 22, 24) includes switching means (22) operated by said 
control means (12) for setting the data transmission 

order in accordance with the predetermined 
data 

transmission order of said control means (12).  
 
A video camera according to claim 1, wherein 
the address data is provided for selecting from a plurality 

of functions of said processing means (6, 7, 8) a function to 
be carried out, the control data is provided for indicating 

an action to be carried out by the function selected, and the 
communication data from said processing means (6, 7, 8) is 

output data formed as a result of the action of the function 
selected. 
A video camera according to claim 2, wherein 
said control means (12) is a microcomputer arranged to 

control the video camera on the basis of said output data. 
A video camera according to claim 3,wherein 
the plurality of functions of said processing means (6, 7, 8) 

include focus detecting means. 
A video camera according to claim 3, wherein 
the plurality of functions of said processing means (6, 7, 8) 

include light measuring means. 
A video camera according to claim 4, wherein 
the control data is provided for indicating a focus detecting 

position within an image plane, and the communication data  
 

from said processing means (6, 7, 8) is a focus detecting 
signal obtained in the focus detecting position. 
A video camera according to claim 5, wherein 
the control data is provided for indicating a light measuring 

position within an image plane, and the communication data 
from said processing means (6, 7, 8) is a measured light 

value obtained in the light measuring position. 
A video camera according to claim 1, wherein 
said data order changing means (21, 22, 24) is 

arranged to change over the order of data transmission 
between the transmission beginning with the MSB of the data 

and the transmission beginning with the LSB of the data.  
 
A video camera according to claim 1, wherein 
the serial communication means (18, 20) has a buffer 

memory (18), wherein speed change 
means (23) are provided to perform the data transmission between the 

control means (12) and the buffer memory (18) at a first 
transmission speed, and to perform the data transmission 

between the buffer memory (18) and the processing means (6, 
7, 8) at a second transmission speed different from the first 

transmission speed. 
A video camera according to claim 9, wherein 
the first transmission speed is slower than the second 

transmission speed. 
A video camera according to claim 10, wherein 
the first transmission speed is controlled by an 

external clock (17) and the second transmission speed is 
controlled by an internal clock (26).  

 
A one-chip signal processing integrated circuit for a 
video camera, comprising: 


processing means (6, 7, 8) for processing a picked-up 
image signal, and 
serial communication means (18, 20) for transferring 
data between said processing means (6, 7, 8) and an external 

control means (12) to be connected thereto and 
having a predetermined order of data 

transmission within one block unit, 
 
   wherein said processing means (6, 7, 8), serial 

communication means (18, 20) and a data order 
changing means (21, 22, 24) are integrated on a one-chip 

integrated circuit (100) for video signal processing of said 
video camera,
 
   said data order changing means (21, 22, 24) 

changing the order of data transmission within one block 
unit to be transmitted by said serial communication means 

according to an instruction of said control means (12),
 
   wherein said data order changing means 

(21, 22, 24) includes switching means (22) operated by said 
control means (12) for setting the data transmission 

order in accordance with the predetermined 
data 

transmission order of said control means (12).  
 
An integrated circuit according to claim 12, wherein 
said processing means (6, 7, 8) 

includes focus detecting means. 
An integrated circuit according to claim 12, wherein 
said processing means (6, 7, 8) 

includes light measuring means. 
An integrated circuit according to claim 12, wherein 
said data order 

changing means (21, 22, 24) is arranged to change over the 
order of data transmission between the transmission beginning 

with the MSB of the data and the transmission beginning with 
the LSB of the data.  

 
An integrated circuit according to claim 12, wherein 
said serial communication means (18, 

20) has a buffer memory (18), wherein speed 
change means (23) are provided to perform the data transmission 

between the control means (12) and the buffer memory (18) at 
a first transmission speed, and to perform the data 

transmission between the buffer memory (18) and the  
 

processing means (6, 7, 8) at a second transmission speed 
different from the first transmission speed. 
An integrated circuit according to claim 16, wherein 
the first transmission speed is slower 

than the second transmission speed. 
An integrated circuit according to claim 17, wherein 
the first transmission speed is 

controlled by an external clock (27) and the second 
transmission speed is controlled by an internal clock (26). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
