<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654713</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Toner supply cartridge for rotary developing device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03G1508	G03G1508	G03G1501	G03G1501	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03G15	G03G15	G03G15	G03G15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A toner cartridge for a rotary developing device 
according to the current invention maximizes the storage 

capacity while it minimizes clogging or aggregation of stored 
toner. The toner cartridge is placed on an outer side 

surface of the rotary developing device and rotates around 
with the rotary developing device around the same axis of 

rotation. During the rotation, the stored toner is shaken 
and thrown against an internally projected dispersing portion 

in the cartridge for minimizing the aggregation of the toner. 
In addition, a vibration mechanism based upon the same 

rotational movement further minimizes the aggregation. The 
toner cartridges each containing a unique color such as cyan, 

magenta, yellow and black may be placed together to form a 
ring on the outer side surface. These toner cartridges are 

identical and maximize the storage capacity by substantially 
eliminating unused space between any adjacently placed 

cartridges. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RICOH KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RICOH COMPANY, LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOSUGE KATSUHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUGIHARA KAZUYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOSUGE, KATSUHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUGIHARA, KAZUYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The current invention relates to toner supply
cartridges for image reproduction systems and, more
particularly, relates to the high-capacity toner supply
cartridge associated with the rotary developing apparatus
used in copiers, printers and the like.In general, an image reproduction apparatus
reproduce images on an image-carrying medium by transferring
toner or developer to the medium in relation to a given
image. Such transfer is typically achieved through the use
of a developing unit which places toner or developer on the
image-carrying medium via a photoreceptor drum. To
accomplish image transfer, the photoreceptor drum surface is
first prepared by an electrophotographic image process to
selectively accept toner in relation to the image. The
developing unit then applies toner onto the photoreceptor
drum via a developing roller. Toner representing the desired
image on the photoreceptor drum is transferred onto an image-carrying
medium such as paper. Further processing of the
paper, for example, the application of heat, serves to
permanently adhere the toner to the paper.In recent years, rotary developing apparatus having
multiple developing units have been proposed for color
copiers, color printers and other image-forming apparatus as
disclosed, for example, in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,782,360, 
4,792,825, 5,258,819, and Japanese Laid Open Publication 4-10070.
In general, multiple independent developing units are
housed in the rotary developing apparatus. Each of the
multiple developing units are positioned around a cylindrical
housing of the rotary developing apparatus and independently
applies toner of a different color to a photoreceptor drum.
To apply toner, only one independent developing unit is
juxtaposed to the photoreceptor drum at a given time. Thus,
for example, if four colors such as yellow, magenta, cyan and
black are used, a developing unit containing one of these
colors is rotatably positioned to juxtapose the photoreceptor
drum to apply toner of the particular color according to a
desired image.The above patents suggest that a separate toner
cartridge for each desired color be placed within the same
developing unit. Although this type of construction allows
relatively easy transportation of toner to the developing
unit, the total size of the rotary developing apparatus is
undesirably large. The large rotary developing apparatus is
especially disadvantageous for a portable or compact image-forming
apparatus.To reduce the overall size of the rotary developing
apparatus, prior art toner
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A toner cartridge (26) for an image reproduction system. said cartridge (26)
comprising:


a holding portion (28) located at one end of the toner cartridge (26) for
storing toner;
a dispensing portion (30) located at another end of the toner cartridge (26),
said dispensing portion (30) having an opening (34), wherein toner is dispensed

through said opening (34); and
a dispersing portion (32) located between said holding portion (28) and said
dispensing portion (30), said dispersing portion being provided with an inward

projection (32a) protruding inwardly such that the toner is dispersed by the projection
(32a) when the toner moves between said holding portion and said dispensing

portion.
The toner cartridge according to claim 1, further comprising a dispersing
member (48a - 48d) freely moving within the toner cartridge for further dispersing

the toner.
The toner cartridge according to claim 2 wherein said dispersing member
(48a - 48d) is larger in size than said opening in said dispensing portion so as to 

prevent said dispersing member from exiting the toner cartridge.
The toner cartridge according to claim 1 wherein said holding portion (28)
has at least an arc so that a plurality of the toner cartridges is arranged to form a

circular configuration.
The toner cartridge according to claim 4 wherein said plurality of the toner
cartridges (26) each contains yellow toner, cyan toner, magenta toner, and black

toner.
The toner cartridge according to claim 1 wherein said dispensing portion
(30) forms a substantially funnel-shaped structure towards said opening.
A toner cartridge according to claim 1, wherein the holding portion (28) is
located at a top portion of the toner cartridge (26) and the dispensing portion (30)

is located at a bottom portion of the toner cartridge; and wherein a dispersing
member (48a-48d) is positioned in the toner cartridge (26), said dispersing member

(48a-48d) freely moving within the toner cartridge for further dispersing the toner.
The toner cartridge according to claim 7 wherein the toner cartridge (26) has
a substantially wedge shape.
The toner cartridge according to claim 7 wherein a plurality of the toner
cartridges (26) forms a substantially doughnut shape.
The toner cartridge according to claim 7 wherein the toner moves toward
said dispensing portion (30) mainly due to gravity.
The toner cartridge according to claim 7, further comprising a contact
surface located at an outer surface of the toner cartridge for squarely contacting said

contact surface of another adjacent toner cartridge of the same type for providing 
structural support.
The toner cartridge according to claim 11 wherein said contact surface is
provided at two or more locations on said outer surface.
A toner supply system for an image reproduction device, comprising:

a developing unit for developing an image using toner;
a toner cartridge (26) according to claim 1 mounted to the exterior of said
developing unit; and
a toner transportation mechanism in fluid communication with said opening
of said dispen
sing portion for transporting toner passing through said opening to
said developing unit.
The toner supply system according to claim 13 wherein said toner transportation
mechanism has a guide for mounting said toner cartridge (26) to said toner

transportation mechanism.
The toner supply system according to claim 13 wherein said toner cartridge
(26) further comprises a slide shutter (38) located adjacent to said opening, said

slide shutter (38) slides so as to open said opening.
The toner supply system according to claim 13 wherein said toner transportation
mechanism further comprises a latch (44) for latching said toner cartridge

to said toner transportation mechanism.
The toner supply system according to claim 15 wherein said slide shutter
(38) slides back to close said opening while unlatching said latch (44).
The toner supply according to claim 13 wherein said dispensing portion (30)
substantially forms a funnel towards said opening. 
A toner cartridge system for an image reproduction apparatus, comprising:

a rotary developing device (10) including a plurality of independent developing
units, each of said developing units developing a part of an image using a

unique color toner, wherein said plurality of independent developing units is rotatably
positioned one at a time for use at a developing position; and
a toner supply cartridge (26a-26d) connected to each of said independent
developing units for supplying said unique color toner, said toner supply cartridge

having a dispersing portion (32) is simultaneously rotated with said independent
developing unit around the same axis, said dispersing portion being provided with

an inward projection (32a) protruding inward such that the toner is dispersed by the
projection (32a) when the toner moves inside the cartridge.
The toner cartridge system according to claim 19 wherein said toner supply
cartridge (26a - 26d) further comprises a dispensing portion (30) located at one end

of said toner supply cartridge, said dispensing portion including an opening for
dispensing said unique color toner, said opening (34) being optimally positioned for

dispensing said unique color toner at said developing position.
The toner cartridge system according to claim 20 wherein said opening (34)
is positioned at the bottom of said toner supply cartridge at said developing

position so as to dispense said unique color toner through said opening due to
gravity.
The toner cartridge system according to claim 19 wherein said toner supply
cartridge further comprises a dispersing member (48a - 48d) located inside said

toner supply cartridge and freely moving inside said toner supply cartridge for
further dispersing said unique color toner.
The toner cartridge system according to claim 19 further comprising a
vibration device (52) for vibrating said rotary developing device and said toner

supply cartridge as said toner supply cartridge is rotatably moved at predetermind positions.  
The toner cartridge system according to claim 19 wherein a plurality of said
toner supply cartridges is arranged to form a substantially doughnut shape.
The toner cartridge system according to claim 24 further comprising a
cylindrical toner cartridge (58) located in the center of said doughnut shape for

containing black toner.
The toner cartridge system according to claim 19, wherein the toner supply
cartridge (26) is located outside said rotary developing means (10) for supplying

said unique color toner, said toner supply means including a holding portion (28)
located at one end of said toner supply means for storing said toner, a dispensing

portion (30) located at the other end of said toner supply means, said dispensing
portion (30) having an opening (34), wherein said toner is dispensed through said

opening, said opening being optimally positioned for dispensing at said developing
position, and wherein the dispersing portion (32) is located between said holding

portion and said dispensing portion, said inward projection protruding inward such
that the toner is dispersed by the projection (32a) when the toner moves between

said dispensing portion and said holding portion; and comprising toner transportation
means in fluid communication with said opening for transporting the toner from

said opening to said independent developing unit.
A toner cartridge supplying system for image reproduction, comprising:

a developing unit for developing an image using toner, said developing unit
having a side surface;
a plurality of toner hoppers (42) located on said side surface for collecting
said toner, said toner hoppers being positioned at equal intervals on said side

surface; and
a plurality of toner cartridges (26) according to claim 1, wherein each of
said toner cartridges is connected to a first one of said hoppers, each of said toner 

cartridges contacting at least a second one of said hoppers.
The toner cartridge supplying system according to claim 27 wherein said
toner cartridge (26) is rotatably positioned at an optimal position for dispensing said

toner into said hopper (42).
The toner cartridge supplying system according to claim 27 wherein said toner cartridges
(26) and said toner hoppers (42) are arranged to form a substantial ring on said side

surface.
The toner cartridge supplying system according to claim 29 further comprising a cylindrical
toner cartridge (58) containing black toner located in the center of said ring.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
