<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642033</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Underwater pulse tracking system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S1300	G01S752	G01S1500	G01S1318	G01S7527	G01S7523	G01V128	G01S752	G01S1114	G01S7292	G01S500	G01V136	G01S7292	G01S1100	G01V138	G01S530	G01V138	G01S1587	G01S1518	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01V	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01V	G01S	G01S	G01V	G01S	G01V	G01S	G01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S13	G01S7	G01S15	G01S13	G01S7	G01S7	G01V1	G01S7	G01S11	G01S7	G01S5	G01V1	G01S7	G01S11	G01V1	G01S5	G01V1	G01S15	G01S15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus and methods for improving signal detection and tracking in underwater 
acoustic devices receiving a set of acoustic pulses propagated in response to repetitive 

synchronizing events. Each of the set of pulses is correlated with a replica of each pulse 
in a receiver in the underwater devic
es during an associated time window. The correlated 
output of the receiver is compared to an adjustable threshold characteristic in a detector 

for selection of the actual pulse according to predetermined criteria for each of the set of 
pulses. An actual time of reception relative to the synchronizing event is assigned to the 

selected pulse. Previous actual times of reception are used to estimate the expected time 
of reception of the associated pulse relative to the next synchronizing event. The estimate 

is used to adjust the associated time window to encompass the expected time of 
reception. Previous actual times of reception are compared to corresponding estimated 

times of reception to develop a measure of the quality of the estimates. The shape of the 
threshold characteristic and the width of the associated time window are adjusted as a 

function of the measure of the quality. A preferred threshold characteristic has a 
parabolic shape with its vertex defining a minimum threshold level at the expected time of 

reception. High quality measures lower the minimum threshold and narrow the parabola 
and the time window; low quality measures raise the minimum threshold level and 

broaden the parabola and the time window. Adaptive signal tracking is thereby provided. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INPUT OUTPUT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INPUT/OUTPUT, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KEMP JR ROBERT H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAGAN BRYANT G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILLIAMS ROSS E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KEMP JR., ROBERT H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAGAN, BRYANT G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILLIAMS, ROSS E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to apparatus and methods for
tracking underwater acoustic signals and, more particularly
to an improved acoustic pulse detection and tracking system
typically usable in an underwater ranging system comprising
a number of hydroacoustic transmitters and receivers deployed
along seismic sources and hydrophone cables for the purpose
of determining their relative locations. The present
invention may also be employed as a pulse tracking system
in other applications.Hydroacoustic ranging systems are used to determine the relative locations of
positions on hydrophone-arrayed seismic streamer cables and seismic sources towed
behind ships performing marine seismic surveys. High-resolution surveys require accurate
estimates of the locations of the seismic source and hydrophone receivers, which can be
determined from the relative locations. Typical ranging systems capable of providing the
required accuracy comprise a number of transmitters and receivers attached at various
positions along the streamers. Individual transmitters and receivers or transceivers can
also be installed on the platform supporting the seismic energy source, on head-end
buoys, and on tail-end buoys. Ranges between pairs of transmitter and receiver locations
are measured by the transit times of pulses transmitted at more or less regular intervals by
the transmitters and received by the receivers. The ranges or the transit times are
reported to a host computer for on-line estimation of the array and source locations or for
storage for later off-line processing.Commercial ranging systems are manufactured by Sonardyne of Hants, United
Kingdom, Syntron, Inc. of Houston, Texas, and DigiCOURSE, Inc. of Harahan,
Louisiana, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the assignee of this invention. Many of the 
details of the DigiCOURSE system for streamer location estimation are described in U.S.
Patent No. 5,031,159, issued July 9, 1991, in the name of Robert E. Rouquette.
Although the ranging system of Rouquette operates well, certain adverse conditions can
cause problems. For example, in high sea states, the acoustic noise level increases relative
to the signal level, making detection more difficult, especially at longer ranges. Variations
in sea state and ambient noise conditions also degrade system performance.Another significant problem is caused by the bubble curtain generated by the seismic
source, the ship's wake, or propeller cavitation. For, example, the collapse of the large air
bubble produced by the seismic blast sheds millions
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A signal detecting and tracking apparatus for
use in an underwater acoustic ranging device which

ranging device includes a transducer (260) for
converting into electrical energy impinging underwater

acoustic energy of a set of acoustic pulses propagated
at predetermined time intervals relative to a

synchronizing event, a receiver (262) connected thereto
for extracting from the electrical energy electrical

pulse signals representing the acoustic pulses, and
means (284,286) for sync
hronizing the acoustic ranging
device to the event, said signal

detecting and tracking apparatus comprising:

a) a pulse detector (282) connected to the
receiver (262) and having means (288,290) for adjusting

detection threshold characteristics separately for each
of the set of acoustic pulses, each detection threshold

characteristic being operable within an associated time
window relative to the occurrence of the synchronizing

event, the pulse detector (282) further arranged to
select from the electrical pulse signals a set of

maximum pulse signals each of whose amplitudes exceeds
the detection threshold characteristic according to a

predetermined criterion during each time window;
b) means for assigning a time of reception 
relative to the occurrence of the synchronizing event

to each of the set of maximum pulse signals; and
c) means for adjusting each detection
threshold characteristic as a function of the time of

reception of each of the maximum pulse signals such that each
detection threshold characteristic defines a time-varying threshold level within the associated time window.
A signal detecting and tracking apparatus
according to claim 1, wherein the pulse detector is

arranged to select a set of maximum pulse signals each
of whose amplitudes exceeds the associated threshold

characteristics by an amount greater than for other
pulse signals received during each time window.
A signal detecting and tracking apparatus
according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the means for

adjusting each detection threshold characteristic is
arranged to provide an estimate of the time of

reception of the next expected maximum pulse signal
during the associated time window relative to the next

synchronizing event from the actual times of reception
of prior maximum pulse signals received during prior

openings of the associated time window.
A signal detecting and tracking apparatus
according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein

each detection threshold characteristic, represented
graphically as a plot of normalized threshold against

time, is characterized by a shape defining a minumum
threshold level at a minimum threshold time T and
i
 within 
the associated time window, maximum threshold levels at

times corresponding to the edges of the time window,
and intermediate threshold levels therebetween, the

means for adjusting detection threshold characteristics
being arranged to adjust the edges of each time window

as a function of the shape and the minimum threshold
time T and
i
 of the associated threshold characteristic.
A signal detecting and tracking apparatus
according to claim 4, wherein the shape is a parabola

having its vertex centered in the associated time
window at the minimum threshold time T and
i
.
A signal detecting and tracking apparatus
according to claim 4 or claim 5, wherein the means for

adjusting the detection threshold characteristic is
arranged to broaden the shape of the threshold

characteristic and thereby the width of the time window
whenever no maximum pulse signal is detected by the

pulse detector within the previous associated time
window.
A signal detecting and tracking apparatus
according to any one of claims 4-6, arranged so that

the minimum threshold level of the detection threshold
characteristic decreases as the shape of the threshold

characteristic and the width of the associated time
window narrow.
A signal detecting and tracking apparatus 
according to claim 3, wherein the means for adjusting

the detection threshold characteristic is arranged to
set minimum threshold time T
i
 of the minimum threshold
level to the estimated time of reception of the next

expected maximum pulse signal, to compare the actual
time of reception with the corresponding estimated time

of reception to produce a measure of the quality of the
comparison, and to adjust said detection threshold

characteristic so as to narrow the shape of the
associated threshold characteristic, represented

graphically as a plot of normalized threshold against
time, in dependence on the measure of the quality of

the comparison.
A signal detecting and tracking apparatus
according to any one of the preceding claims,

comprising means for measuring the ambient acoustic
noise level at a time when no pulses are expected at

the receiver, and for communicating said measured
ambient acoustic noise level to the pulse detector to

scale the level of the threshold characteristic in
dependence on the noise level.
A signal detecting and tracking apparatus
according to claim 1, wherein the receiver comprises

matched-filter means for correlating a replica of a
swept-FM pulse signal matched to the acoustic pulses

with the electrical energy to extract the electrical 
pulse signals representing the acoustic pulses.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
