<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627643</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Laser scanning optical system using axicon
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B2610	G02B2709	G02B2709	G02B2610	G02B2100	G02B500	G02B500	G02B2100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B26	G02B27	G02B27	G02B26	G02B21	G02B5	G02B5	G02B21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A laser scanning optical system is so arranged to 
comprise an optical converting unit (6), an optical scanning 

unit (12), and an optical converging unit (14). Here, the optical 
converting unit (6) is composed of two axicon prisms (7a,b) which are 

arranged such that apexes thereof are opposed forward or 
backward to each other at a predetermined distance and 

optical axes thereof are coincident with each other and 
which are made of respective materials having a same 

refractive index and shaped with a same apical angle. By 
this, the laser beam incident into the optical converting 

unit becomes a cylindrical ray bundle having an annular 
cross-sectional intensity perpendicular to the optical 

axis. Therefore, the cylindrical ray bundle is changed in 
the traveling direction by the optical scanning unit to be 

scanned and is then converged by the optical converging unit 
to become a Bessel beam having a high energy utilization 

factor, a high resolution and a long focal depth. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAMAMATSU PHOTONICS KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAMAMATSU PHOTONICS K.K.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ICHIE KOJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ICHIE, KOJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a laser scanning optical
system.If an ordinary fluorescence microscope is used to
observe a sample having a three-dimensional thickness,
defocused images outside the depth of focus are
superimposed on an image formed on the focal plane.
This globally lowers the contrast of a microscopic
image, which makes determination of fluorescence
intensity difficult. Approaches to deal with this
problem will be described in the following.For example, in a conventional confocal laser
scanning fluorescence microscope, a laser beam emitted
from a laser is expanded in diameter of ray bundle by
a beam expander and thereafter passes through a
dichroic mirror. The laser oscillates the laser beam
at a wavelength corresponding to a peak wavelength in
an absorption spectrum of a fluorescent 
dye used in labeling of a sample. The beam expander is
composed of two convex lenses. The dichroic mirror is so
formed as to have a high reflectivity for optical components
in a predetermined wavelength range including a
fluorescence emitted from the fluorescent dye and a high
transmittance for the oscillation wavelength of laser beam.The laser beam bent in the direction perpendicular to
the optical axis by an X-Y scanner is focused by an imaging
lens to form an optical spot on a front image plane of an
objective lens, and thereafter the objective lens converges
the optical spot to the diffraction limit to form a
converged optical spot inside the sample. The X-Y scanner
changes the traveling direction of laser beam within a
predetermined angular range to scan in two orthogonal
directions on a plane. Further, the objective lens or a
stage on which the sample is set moves in parallel with the
optical axis. Thus, the optical spot of the laser beam
three-dimensionally scans the inside of sample by the
parallel scanning to the optical axis in addition to the
two-dimensional scanning perpendicular to the optical axis,
such as the raster scanning. The sample is for example an
organism sample labeled with a fluorescent dye, which is
excited by the optical spot of the laser beam.A fluorescence diverging out of the sample is collected
by the objective lens and thereafter advances backward
through the optical path, through which the laser beam has 
passed. The fluorescence outgoing from the X-Y scanner is
reflected by the dichroic mirror in the direction
perpendicular to the optical axis and thereafter is focused
by a collimator lens to form an image thereof in a pinhole
in a confocal pinhole plate. The fluorescence
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A laser scanning optical system for scanning a
sample (15, 38, 42) with a beam, the system comprising:


an optical converting unit (6) for converting an
input laser beam incident thereto into a substantially

annular output beam of light having an inner dimension
and an outer dimension, the optical converting unit

comprising two co-axial axicon prisms (7a, 7b) arranged
with their apexes facing either towards or away from

each other;
an optical scanning unit (12) for converting the
output beam of light into a scanning output beam;
an optical converging unit (14) for converging the
scanning output beam from said optical scanning unit to

produce a scanning Bessel beam for scanning a sample
(15, 38, 42); and
control means associated with the
optical converting unit (6) for varying the ratio

between the inner and outer dimensions of the annular
outpu
t beam, thereby to enable control of the
convergence and focal depth of the Bessel beam at the

sample (15, 38, 42).
A laser scanning optical system according to
claim 1, wherein said control means comprises moving

means (7c, 7d, 7e, 7f) in said optical converting unit
(6) for effecting relative movement between said two 

axicon prisms (7a, 7b) so as to vary the distance
therebetween.
A laser scanning optical system according to
claim 1, wherein said optical converting unit (6) has an

entrance side and an exit side, and said control means
comprises a beam expander (5a, 5b, 5c, 10a, 10b, 10c) or

reducer (5a, 5b, 5c, 10a, 10b, 10c) disposed on the
entrance side of said optical converting unit (6).
A laser scanning optical system according to
any preceding claim, further comprising a beam expander

(5a, 5b, 5c, 10a, 10b, 10c) or reducer (5a, 5b, 5c, 10a,
10b, 10c) disposed on the exit side of said optical

converting unit.
A laser scanning optical apparatus according
to any preceding claim, further comprising a light

source (1) for emitting a laser beam.
A laser scanning optical apparatus according
to any preceding claim, wherein the two axicon prisms

(7a, 7b) are made of respective materials having the
same refractive index and are shaped with the same

apical angle.
A laser scanning optical apparatus according
to any preceding claim, wherein said input laser beam is

a pulsed beam having a very short pulse duration, the
apparatus further comprising an optical detecting unit

(19a, 19b, 19c, 20a, 20b, 20c) for detecting 
fluorescence emitted from a sample (15) labelled with a

predetermined fluorescent dye based on multiphoton
absorption upon irradiation by said Bessel beam, and

wherein output signals from said optical detecting unit
(19a, 19b, 19c, 20a, 20b, 20c) are stored as pixel data

in synchronization with scanning of said laser beam to
obtain data defining a microscopic image of said sample

(15).
A laser scanning optical apparatus according
to claim 7, wherein said optical detecting unit

comprises a first photoelectric detector (20a, 20b, 20c)
for detecting fluorescence emitted from one surface of a

sample (15) and a second photoelectric detector (19a,
19b, 19c) for detecting fluorescence emitted from

another, opposing surface of said sample (15), and
wherein said data defining said microscopic image is

produced based on addition of output signals from said
first (20a, 20b, 20c) and second (19a, 19b, 19c)

photoelectric detectors.
A laser scanning optical apparatus according
to any of claims 1 to 6, wherein the scanning unit (12)

is arranged to scan the sample (38) with a predetermined
pattern, thereby to enable the pattern to be formed on

the surface of a sample (38) coated with a photosensitive
agent (39) as a result of exposure of the

agent to irradiation by said Bessel beam. 
A laser scanning optical apparatus according
to any of claims 1 to 6, wherein the optical converging

unit (14) is arranged to produce a Bessel beam with a
long focal depth and an intensity distribution suitable

for effecting a repair to a surface region of a sample
(42) based on excitation with irradiation of said Bessel

beam.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
