<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631642</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SECURITY SYSTEM FOR A GAMING DEVICE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63F900	A63F900	A63F1100	A63F1100	E05B3900	E05B3904	E05B4700	E05B4700	E05B4706	E05B4706	E05B6100	E05B6100	G07F902	G07F902	G07F1732	G07F1732	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63F	A63F	A63F	A63F	E05B	E05B	E05B	E05B	E05B	E05B	E05B	E05B	G07F	G07F	G07F	G07F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63F9	A63F9	A63F11	A63F11	E05B39	E05B39	E05B47	E05B47	E05B47	E05B47	E05B61	E05B61	G07F9	G07F9	G07F17	G07F17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARACHNID INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARACHNID, INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARTIN JOHN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARTIN, JOHN, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SECURITY SYSTEM FOR A GAMING DEVICETECHNICAL FIELDThe present invention relates to a security system for a gaming device and more particularly to a system that prevents access to the controls of a gaming device during a power failure, the system recording the times of occurrence of a door opening event in a non-erasable programmable memory when power is supplied to the gaming device to provide a tamper-resistant record of such events.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONKnown gaming devices typically have a locked door through which access to the controls of the gaming device may be attained. In order to monitor the door during a power failure, systems have been developed such as disclosed in United States Patent No. 4,795,155 that detect during a power failure whether a door on the gaming device is open and, if it is, the system stores a signal in a latch indicative thereof. Upon the restoration of power, a processor in the game control circuitry reads the contents of the latch to determine whether the door was opened during the power failure and, if so, the processor prevents further operation of the gaming device. Such systems are fairly costly, however, and do not provide detailed records of door opening events. 

 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONIn accordance with the present invention, the disadvantages of prior security systems for gaming devices, as discussed above, have been overcome. The system of the present invention prevents a door on a gaming device from being opened during a power failure, and whenever power is supplied to the gaming device, the system records the times of occurrence of each door opening event in a memory that is tamper-resistant.More particularly, the system of the present invention includes a lock member mounted relative to the cabinet and door of the gaming device. The lock member in a first position prevents the door of the gaming device from being opened, the lock member being movable to a second position to allow the door to be opened. A device that is operable during a power failure interferes with the lock member to prevent movement of the lock member from the first position to the second position so as to prevent the door of the gaming device from being opened. When power is restored, the power down interfering device moves out of interference with the lock member to allow the lock member to be moved to the second position.The system of the present invention also includes a switch device mounted relative to the door of the gaming device to detect the opening of the door and to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. In a gaming device having a cabinet housing a controller for the gaming device, the cabinet having a door through which access to the controller may be had, a system for preventing said door from being opened during a power failure comprising; a lock member mounted relative to said cabinet and door, said lock member having a first position preventing said door from being opened and being movable to a second position to allow said door to be opened; and means operable during a power failure for interfering with said lock member to prevent movement of said lock member from said first position to said second position.
2. A gaming device as recited in Claim 1 wherein said movement preventing means includes an interference member biased by a spring to interfere with said lock member and an actuator that is responsive to the application of electrical power to move said interference member out of engagement with said lock member.
3. A gaming device as recited in Claim 1 wherein said movement preventing means includes a solenoid with a spring-biased plunger. 


 4. A gaming device as recited in Claim 1 further including a switch device mounted relative to said door to detect the opening of said door and to provide a door open signal in response thereto and means included in said controls responsive to a door open signal for storing in a non-erasable memory information representing the times of occurrence of the opening of said door.
5. A gaming device as recited in Claim 4 wherein said information is stored in a programmable read only memory.
6. A gaming device as recited in Claim 4 wherein said memory has addressable, sequential memory locations and said control means stores said information in a sequential manner.
7. A gaming device as recited in Claim 6 wherein said control means includes means for verifying said information relative to said memory locations.
8. In a gaming device having a cabinet housing controls for the gaming device, the cabinet having a door through which access to the controls may be had, a system for monitoring door opening events comprising: a switch device mounted relative to said door to detect the opening of said door and provide a door open signal in response thereto; and means included in said controls responsive to a door open signal for storing in a non-erasable programmable memory information representing the time of occurrence of an opening of said door. 


 9. A gaming device as recited in Claim 8 wherein said information is stored in a programmable read only memory.
10. A gaming device as recited in Claim 6 wherein said memory has addressable, sequential memory locations and said control means stores said information in a sequential manner.
11. A gaming device as recited in Claim 8 wherein said control means includes means for verifying said information relative to said memory locations.
12. A gaming device as recited in Claim 8 including means for preventing said door from being opened during a power failure.
13. A gaming device as recited in Claim 12 including a lock member mounted relative to said cabinet and door, said lock member in a first position preventing said door from being opened and being movable to a second position to allow said door to be opened; and an interference member biased by a spring to interfere with said lock member, said interference member being coupled to an actuator that is responsive to the application of electrical power to move said interference member out of engagement with said lock member.
14. A gaming device as recited in Claim 12 wherein said preventing means includes a solenoid having a plunger that is spring biased to interfere with said lock member during a power failure. 


 15. In a gaming device having a cabinet housing controls for the gaming device, the cabinet having a door through which access to the controls may be had, a door open monitoring system comprising: means for preventing said door from being opened during a power failure; and means operable during the restoration of power for storing in a non-erasable programmable memory information representing the times of occurrence of each opening of said door.
16. A gaming device as recited in claim 15 further including means for transmitting the information stored in said memory to a remote location. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
