<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655123</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ELECTRONIC LEVEL DISPLAYING INCLINATION WITH REGARD TO INSTRUMENT LENGTH
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01C906	G01C920	G01C900	G01C918	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01C	G01C	G01C	G01C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01C9	G01C9	G01C9	G01C9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electronic level includes a visual scale (12) similar to a ruler scale having a number of parallel line segments (12a, 12b, 12c). The inclination of the device is shown by illuminating various of the scale line segments on either side of a central line (12a), indicating the inclination away from null. When the device is at a null only the central scale line is illuminated. Each scale line segment indicates a fraction of an inch of inclination per e.g. two feet of horizontal distance (the two feet being the level length in one version) which conforms to the normal use of such levels by building tradesmen. The level is calibrated by taking two readings with the level rotated 180  between readings. The readings are averaged and negative feedback is provided to the level sensor itself to null out any system mechanical or electrical offsets.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZIRCON CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZIRCON CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEGER CHARLES E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHULTHEIS GARY R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEGER, CHARLES, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHULTHEIS, GARY, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an electronic level and
specifically to the visual display and calibration of the
level.Electronic levels known in the art include that sold
by Wedge Innovations Inc. and as disclosed in U.S. Patent
4,912,662 issued March 27, 1990 to Butler et al. (assigned
to Wedge Innovations Inc.). Furthermore, such prior art
electronic level displays show the inclination in degrees
or percent slope, which are typically not the inclination
measurements used by building tradesmen (carpenters,
masons etc.).Butler et al. also disclose at col. 9, lines 6-11:
   The rise/run mode 122 is determined by
first using the determine angle
routine of block 146 and the display
routine of block 148. The display
function is calculated at twelve times
the tangent of the angle determined by
block 146. This gives the rise to run
value of inches per foot.Prior art devices thus often do not provide a
satisfactory indication of how far from level or plumb one
is in a mode useful to tradesmen who tend not to think in
terms of inches per foot or percent slope or angular
slope. In US-4,912,662 and in US-5,031,329 these terms are displayed numerically. In accordance with the invention, there is provided an
inclination sensor device comprising: a sensor for
determining an inclination of the device relative to a null
inclination; and a visual display for displaying the
determined inclination, the visual display comprising a
plurality of illuminated parallel and adjacent line
segments, each line segment representing a predetermine
increment of inclination expressed as a linear deviation
per linear length, a particular number of line segments
being displayed for each said determined inclination.The invention also provides a method of indicating
angular deviation of a level from a particular inclination,
comprising: providing on the level a scale display having
a plurality of parallel and adjacent line segments; sensing
an amount of the angular deviation of the level;
illuminating one or more of the line segments to indicate
each amount of angular deviation of the level, each
illuminated line segment indicating an incremental
deviation of a particular linear distance per length.Thus there may be provided an electronic level that
has a visual display that displays rise over run (deviation
from a null) in terms of deviation from the null (level or
plumb) in inches per the actual length of the level
instrument (such as two or four feet). This advantageously
corresponds to the way that such levels are used by
tradesmen. Note:
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An inclination sensor device comprising:

a sensor for determining an inclination of the device
relative to a null inclination; and
a visual display for displaying the determined

inclination, the visual display comprising a plurality of
illuminated parallel and adjacent line segment, characterized in that each line

segment represents a predetermined increment of
inclination expressed as a linear deviation per linear

length, a particular number of line segments being displayed
for each said determined inclination.
The device of claim 1, wherein the linear deviation
is expressed in increments of 25.4mm (an inch) per a

predetermined linear length, or the linear deviation is
expressed in increments of 0.4mm (1/64 of an inch) and the

linear length is 304.8mm (a foot), or the units of deviation
and length are metric units.
The device of claim 1 or 2, wherein the visual
display includes an annunciator portion or alphanumeric

display annunciator indicating or solely for showing in
which one of a plurality of modes the display is operating.
The device of any of claims 1 to 3, further
comprising a mode controller for operating the display in

any of a plurality of modes, each mode establishing said
null inclination at a particular inclination relative to the

gravitational plane of the earth and each mode being
automatically operative at level, plumb, inverted level, and

inverted plumb.
The device of claim 3 or 4 further comprising a
housing for the sensor and display, and, wherein one of the

modes is a user programmable mode wherein means are provided
for a user to set the particular inclination at any

arbitrary inclination without changing a position of the
sensor relative to the housing. 
The device of any of claims 3 to 5, the plurality
of modes including fixed offset mode, variable offset mode,

and normal mode.
The device of any of claims 1 to 6, wherein only
a central one of the line segment is illuminated when the

device is at the null inclination.
The device of any of claims 1 to 7, the display
further comprising an indication that the device is out of

calibration range when the device has not been calibrated
at that particular inclination.
The device of any of claims 1 to 8, wherein each
fourth line segment is longer than are adjacent line

segments.
The device of any of claims 1 to 9, wherein he
display further comprises two right triangle icons, a first

of the two having its hypotenuse slanting up to the left
and the second of the two having its hypotenuse slanting up

to the right, the display displaying one or another of the
two right triangles in response to the determined

inclination about true level, thereby graphically depicting
the rotation of the device from true level.
The device of any of claims 1 to 10, further
comprising an audible indication of the determined

inclination, the audible indication being one musical tone
of a scale of musical tones, each tone of the scale being

sequentially associated with at least one of the line
segments of the visual display.
The device of claim 11, wherein during changing
of the inclination of the device the audible indication is

a plurality of the music tones in sequence.
A device as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 10 
comprising:


an audible tone generator for generating musically
scaled audible tones, one of the tones being generated for

one or more of a plurality of determined inclinations of
the device;
wherein the tones are in sequential association with
increasing determined inclination, and wherein during

changing of the inclination of the device the tone
generator provides a plurality of the tones in sequence of

the musical scale.
The device of claim 13, wherein the tone
generator generates one of the highest or lowest tone of

the scale when the determined inclination is farthest from
the null inclination.
A device as claimed in any preceding claim
comprising:


a plurality of sensor elements, each sensing
capacitance changes in response to inclination;
a comparator associated with each sensor element for
detecting a voltage of each sensor element in response to

an excitation cycle of said sensor element;
a first digital to analog convertor for supplying a
first reference voltage to certain of the comparators;
a second digital to analog converter for supplying a
second reference voltage to a remainder of the comparators;

and
signal processor circuitry for determining and
displaying the inclination in response to output signals of

the comparators, the signal processor circuitry averaging
the output signals of the comparator over a predetermined

number of the excitation cycles.
The device of claim 15, wherein unless the
averaged value is either greater than or equal to a

predetermined value by a fixed amount, the determined
inclination value is not displayed.
The device of claim 15 or 16, further comprising
a processor for providing a digital input signal to each of

the first and second digital to analog converters for
conversion to the respective first and second reference

voltages, wherein the digital input signals are expressed
in steps, and each step is equivalent to a fixed vertical

distance of inclination per linear horizontal distance.
The device of claim 17, wherein the processor
further includes:


means for adding additional digital input signals to
a digital signal held in each digital to analog converter,

thereby shifting a null position determined by the device;
and
means for setting the additional digital signal
alternatively to one of at least two values.
An inclination sensing device as claimed in any
preceding claim, the device having a particular length,

wherein:

the display is for displaying the inclination as a
measurement expressed in a fraction of a linear unit

inclination per the particular length of the device.
The device of claim 19, wherein the linear unit
is 25.4mm (1 inch).
The device of claim 19 or 20, wherein the
particular length is 1.22m (four feet) or another multiple

of 610mm (two feet).
The device of claims 19 to 21, the display 
further comprising an indicator of a direction in which the

device must be tilted to achieve a particular predetermined
null position.
The device of any of claims 19 to 22, wherein the
display further comprises a dedicated mode-indicating

portion for indicating in which one of a plurality of modes
the display is operating, the mode indicating portion being

for no other purpose.
A method of indicating angular deviation of a
level from a particular inclination, comprising:


providing on the level a scale display having a
plurality of parallel and adjacent line segments;
sensing an amount of the angular deviation of the
level;
illuminating one or more of the line segments to
indicate each amount of angular deviation of the level, characterized

in that each illuminated line segment indicates an incremental

deviation of a particular linear distance per length.
The method of claim 24, further comprising the
steps of:


establishing a null at which the level indicates no
inclination; and
setting the null to be other than level or plumb
relative to a plane of the earth's gravitational field.
A method as claimed in claim 24 or 25, comprising
generating an audible tone in a musical scale, each tone

being associated with a particular amount of the sensed
deviation, wherein the tones are in sequential association

with increasing sensed amount of angular deviation.
A method as claimed in claim 24, 25 or 26 wherein
the device is of a particular length, comprising the steps 

of:

providing a display showing the inclination as a
measurement expressed in a fractional linear unit per the

particular length; and
displaying the sensed inclination on the display.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
