<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649313</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ORTHODONTIC BAND STERILIZATION CASSETTE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61C700	A61C700	A61C1900	A61C1900	A61L204	A61L206	A61L226	A61L226	B65D4314	B65D4320	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61C	A61C	A61C	A61C	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61C7	A61C7	A61C19	A61C19	A61L2	A61L2	A61L2	A61L2	B65D43	B65D43	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multiple compartment box for use in sterilizing and segregating small parts, such as orthodontic bands. The box is shaped as a cassette (10) with multiple compartments with indicators (16, 17) which assist in segregating the small parts for ease in differentiation of the parts. The box incorporates a sliding lid (14) which can be locked into different positions to further assist in segregating the small parts.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JOHNSEN BRIGHAM SUSAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JOHNSEN-BRIGHAM, SUSAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSEN-BRIGHAM SUSAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSEN-BRIGHAM, SUSAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ORTHODONTIC BAND STERILIZATION CASSETTEBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe invention relates to the field of sterilization devices. It further relates to cassettes used to hold small parts to prevent their loss or damage during the sterilization process.It is a common problem in the fitting of orthodontic bands that many of the bands are lost or damaged during the fitting, cleaning or sterilizing process. In fitting orthodontic bands it is frequently necessary to try numerous variously sized orthodontic bands until the appropriately sized band is found for a particular tooth. Each band which is attempted and not appropriately sized is removed from the mouth and then placed on a counter until the fitting process is completed. After the fitting is completed it is necessary for the orthodontist or an assistant to collect the unused bands, wash them by hand and then collect the bands and sterilize them. Due to the small size of the bands, they are easily dropped or mishandled which can cause them to be lost or damaged. Further, after the bands are removed from sterilization, they must be sorted by hand, and replaced in the appropriate containers for the next use. This sorting requires a great deal of time and effort.The placement of the orthodontic bands on a counter after they have been removed from a patients mouth increases the possibility that the orthodontist or his or her assistants may come into contact with the bands which are exposed to oral fluids. This increases the risk to the orthodontist or assistants of exposure to germs or disease.Many types of cassettes or boxes are known for use in sterilizing equipment used in a medical or dental setting. Examples of these inventions are shown in the Brewer patent, U.S. Patent No. 4,959,199 which discloses a cassette used for 

" the sterilization of dental instruments; the Riihimaki, et al . patent, U.S. Patent No. 4,854,475 which discloses a cassette for sterilizing dental instruments; the Maly patent U.S. Patent No. 4,402,407 which discloses a surgeon's chest for sterilizing surgical instruments; and the Dietz patent U.S. Patent No. 3,092,443 which discloses a dental burr holder and sterilizer.The art also discloses boxes for storage of small parts such as orthodontic brackets as shown by the Georgakis patent, U.S. Patent No. 4,898,276.The problem in the art is that most of the sterilization devices are designed for the sterilization of dental instruments which are of a sufficient size that there is little risk of these items being lost in the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 I Claim:
1. A sterilization cassette comprising: two generally parallel sidewalls attached by a pair of endwalls generally perpendicular to said sidewalls and a base also generally perpendicular to said sidewalls, said sidewalls, endwalls and base defining a generally rectangular container; at least one lid slidably engaging each of said sidewalls; at least one dividing wall member joined to both of said two generally parallel sidewalls and to said base, thereby defining a plurality of discrete compartments within said generally rectangular container, each of said discrete compartments being selectively accessible by sliding said at least one lid; and at least one indicia on said container corresponding to one of said discrete compartments.
2. The cassette of Claim 1 further comprising a plurality of openings passing through at least one of said sidewalls, said endwalls, said base, said at least one lid, and said at least one divider.
3. The cassette of Claim 1, wherein the cassette is made from autoclavable material.
4. The cassette of Claim 3 wherein the autoclavable material further comprises surgical steel.
5. The cassette of Claim 1 wherein there are provided at least three dividing wall members forming four compartments in the rectangular container. 


 6. The cassette of Claim 1 where the dividing wall members are positioned substantially parallel to the endwalls.
7. A sterilization cassette comprising: generally parallel and vertical perforated sidewalls attached by a pair of generally vertical endwalls and a horizontal base, said sidewalls, endwalls and base defining a generally rectangular container; a plurality of perforated dividing wall members, each of said plurality of perforated dividing wall members being joined to both of said generally parallel and vertical perforated sidewalls and said horizontal base, thereby defining a plurality of discrete compartments within said generally rectangular container; at least one lid engaging inner aspects of said sidewalls and lids can be reciprocally moveable therebetween; at least one indicia disposed on said rectangular container identifying contents of said rectangular container.
8. The cassette of Claim 7 further comprising a plurality of openings in at least one of said sidewalls, said endwalls, said base, said at least one lid, and said plurality of perforated dividing wall members.
9. The cassette of Claim 7, wherein the cassette is made from autoclavable material.
10. The cassette of Claim 9 wherein the autoclavable material further comprises surgical steel. 


 11. The cassette of Claim 7 wherein there are provided at least three of said dividing wall members forming four discrete compartments in the rectangular container.
- 12. The cassette of Claim 7 where each of said plurality of dividing wall members dividers are positioned substantially parallel to the endwalls.
13. A sterilization cassette comprising: generally parallel and vertical sidewalls attached by a pair of generally vertical endwalls forming a generally rectangular container; a longitudinal divider attached to each of said sidewalls and to said pair of endwalls thereby defining upper and lower chambers of the generally rectangular container; a plurality of vertical wall members defining a plurality of discrete interior compartments in each of said upper and lower chambers; at least one lid member slidably associated with each of said upper and lower chambers; and at least one indica associated with at least one of said sidewalls or at least one of said lid members.
14. The cassette of Claim 13 further comprising a plurality of openings in at least one of said sidewalls, said endwalls, said base, said at least one lid, and said at least one divider.
15. The cassette of Claim 13, wherein the cassette is made from autoclavable material. 


 16. The cassette of Claim 15 wherein the autoclavable material further comprises surgical steel.
17. A method for sterilizing a plurality of orthodontic bands of the type adapted for insertion onto at least one tooth in an orthodontic patient's mouth, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a sterilization cassette of generally rectangular configuration having vertical sidewalls, vertical endwalls and a base, and having a plurality dividing wall members coupled to both of said vertical sidewalls forming discrete interior compartments accessible through a slidable lid in cooperation with said sterilization cassette; (b) selecting at least one of the plurality of orthodontic bands and fitting the orthodontic bands to the patient's teeth; (c) removing any of the plurality of orthodontic bands which are not appropriately fitted to the patient's teeth: (d) segregating and placing removed orthodontic bands into said plurality of discrete interior compartments of said sterilization cassette; and (e) sterilizing the sterilization cassette. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
