<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651732</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
EMULSIFIED FURAN RESIN BASED GLASS FIBER BINDING COMPOSITIONS AND PROCESS OF BINDING GLASS FIBERS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C03C2524	C03C2526	C03C2530	C04B2600	C04B2610	C08G1600	C08G1602	C08L100	C08L100	C08L6100	C08L6100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C03C	C03C	C03C	C04B	C04B	C08G	C08G	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C03C25	C03C25	C03C25	C04B26	C04B26	C08G16	C08G16	C08L1	C08L1	C08L61	C08L61	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a glass fiber binding composition having an effective binding amount of a furan resin, an effective emulsifying amount of an emulsifier agent, and sufficient amount of water to result in a binding composition having from 0.5 to 80 % N.V. The invention further pertains to a process of binding glass fibers at junctions of the fibers comprising the steps of providing glass fibers, applying an effect binding amount of an emulsified glass fiber binding composition to the junctions of the glass fibers, and curing the binder at the junctions of the glass fibers. Finally, the invention also discloses a glass fiber composition comprising a plurality of glass fibers having a plurality of junctions where two or more fibers meet, and an effective binding amount of an emulsified glass fiber binding composition applied to a portion of the junctions of the glass fibers.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHULLER INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHULLER INTERNATIONAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLINO CARLO MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIELMEYER WILLIAM HENRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR THOMAS JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLINO, CARLO MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIELMEYER, WILLIAM, HENRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR, THOMAS, JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 EMULSIFIED FURAN RESIN BASED GLASS FIBER BINDING COMPOSITIONS AND PROCESS OF BINDING GLASS FIBERSCross-Reference To Related ApplicationThis application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Serial No. 886,668, filed May 19, 1992, and entitled Glass Fiber Binding Compositions, Process Of Binding Glass Fibers, And Glass Fiber Compositions" .Field Of The InventionThis application relates to emulsified furan resin based binding compositions for glass fibers, a process for binding glass fibers using the disclosed binding compositions, and also two glass fiber compositions made with the disclosed binding compositions.Background Of The InventionFiber glass comes in many shapes and sizes and can be used for a variety of applications. A general discussion of fiber glass technology is provided in "Fiber Glass" by J. Gilbert Mohr andWilliam P. Rowe, Van Nostran Reinhold Co., New York 1978 which is herein incorporated by reference.As discussed in "Fiber Glass", glass fibers are generally mass produced in two types: bulk or blown fiber for insulation and allied applications, and continuous-filament, or reinforcing fibers. In either form raw fiber glass is abrasive and easily fragmentized. Damage to the individual glass fibers can occur as a result of the self-abrasive motion of one fiber passing over or interacting with another fiber. The resulting surface defects cause reductions in overall mechanical strength. 

 Consequently, binders have been developed to prevent these problems. A typical binder may prevent the destructive effects of self-abrasion without inhibiting the overall flexibility of the finished glass fiber product. Extremely good resistance and resilience to conditions of elevated humidity and heat are beneficial in view of the wide variety of end use applications for glass fiber/binder compositions.One of the most important performance properties is a consequence of the practical realities of the glass fiber manufacturing business. Cured glass fiber/binder compositions are normally very bulky and voluminous. Batts and rolls used as insulation in buildings have densities ranging from 0.5 to 1.0 pound per cubic foot (pcf) and generally require binder contents of 3 to 7% by weight. Since it is prohibitively expensive to ship such materials in an uncompressed state, the batts and rolls are bundled and compressed in packages to 8 to 25% of their manufactured thickness. During the shipping process these packages are normally subjected to conditions of elevated temperature and humidity. Once the compressed
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
hat Is Claimed Is;
1. A glass fiber binding composition comprising: an effective binding amount of a furan resin; an effective emulsifying amount of an emulsifier agent; and a sufficient amount of water to result in a binding composition having from 0.5 to 80 % N.V..
2. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 1 where the furan resin comprises the reaction product resulting from the polymerization reaction wherein at least one reagent is selected from the group consisting of the furan containing molecule having the general formula:
,-Cv
and its saturated analogs thereof having 0 to 1 carbon- carbon double bonds, wherein X and Y are independently comprised of organic molecular groups.
3. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 2 where X and Y are independently comprised of molecular groups comprising one or more functional moieties selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, ^-C^ alkyl groups, polysubstituted vinyl radicals, polysubstituted aromatic groups, ketones, anhydrides, polysubstituted furfuryl, hydroxyls, aldehydes, carboxylic acids, esters, ethers, amines, amides, imines, imides, alkynes, alkyl halides, aromatic halides, olefinic halides, ethers, thiols, sulfides, nitriles, nitro groups, sulfones, sulfonic acids, carbofunctional siloxanes, and mixtures thereof.
4. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 1 where the furan resin is not aqueous compatible. 


 5. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 1 where the emulsifier agent is comprised of hydroxy propyl methyl cellulose.
6. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 5 where the hydroxy propyl methyl cellulose has a viscosity of 4000 cPt at a 2% concentration in water at 20°C.
7. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 1 where an effective emulsifying amount of the emulsifier agent is from 1 to 10 pph active binder solids.
8. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 5 where an effective emulsifying amount of the hydroxy propyl methyl cellulose is from 1 to 3 pph active binder solids.
9. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 1 further comprising 1 to 30 %_ urea by weight of the total binder composition.
10. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 1 further comprising an effective amount of a catalyst for curing the furan resin.
11. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 10 comprising a catalyst selected from the group consisting of inorganic and organic acids and salts thereof, acid anhydrides, metal halides, and mixtures thereof.
12. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 11 where an effective amount of the catalyst is from 1 to 20 % by weight of the composition.
13. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 12 where the catalyst is maleic acid and ammonium sulfate. 


 14. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 1 which has between 5 to 40 % N.V. and a viscosity of between 1.1 to 400 cPs.
15. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 1 where the emulsifier agent is a substituted methyl cellulose.
16. A method of making an emulsified glass fiber binding composition, comprising: providing an effective binding amount of a furan resin; providing an emulsifying amount of an emulsifier agent; providing enough water to result in a binding composition having from 0.5 to 80 % N.V. ; and mixing the furan resin, the emulsifier agent, and the water to form an emulsified binding composition.
17. The method of claim 16 further comprising the steps of: providing a portion of the water as hot water having a temperature from 70 to 100 degrees C; mixing the emulsifier agent with the hot water to form a first mixture; providing a portion of the water as cold water having a temperature of less than 30 degrees C; mixing the cold water with the first mixture to form a second mixture; and mixing the furan resin with the second mixture to form an emulsified binding composition.
18. The method of claim 17 where the step of providing a portion of the water as hot water comprises providing between 10 to 40 % by weight of the water required to result in a binding composition having from 0.5 to 80 % N.V..
19. The method of claim 17 where the step of providing a portion of the water as cold water comprises providing between 60 


to 90 % by weight of the water required to result in a binding composition having from 0.5 to 80 % N.V..
20. The method of claim 19 where the steps of mixing all occur under vigorous agitation.
21. The method of claim 17 where the step of providing an effective binding amount of a furan resin comprises providing the reaction product resulting from the polymerization reaction wherein at least one reagent is selected from the group consisting of the furan containing molecule having the general formula:
and its saturated analogs thereof having 0 to 1 carbon-carbon double bonds, wherein X and Y are independently comprised of organic molecular groups.
22. The method of claim 21 wherein the step of providing a furan resin further comprises providing the reaction product where X and Y are independently comprised of molecular groups comprising one or more functional moieties selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, ^-C^ alkyl groups, polysubstituted vinyl radicals, polysubstituted aromatic groups, ketones, anhydrides, polysubstituted furfuryl, hydroxyls, aldehydes, carboxylic acids, esters, ethers, amines, amides, imines, imides, alkynes, alkyl halides, aromatic halides, olefinic halides, ethers, thiols, sulfides, nitriles, nitro groups, sulfones, sulfonic acids, carbofunctional siloxanes, and mixtures thereof.
23. The method of claim 16 where the step of providing an emulsifying amount of an emulsifier agent further comprises providing a hydroxy propyl methyl cellulose. 


 24. The method of claim 23 further comprising providing a hydroxy propyl methyl cellulose having a viscosity of about 4000 cPs.
25. The method of claim 16 further comprising the step of adding an effective amount of a catalyst.
26. The method of claim 25 further comprising the step of adding an effective amount of a catalyst selected from the group consisting of inorganic and organic acids and salts thereof, acid anhydrides, metal halides, and mixtures thereof.
27. The method of claim 26 further comprising adding 1 to 20 % maleic acid and ammonium sulfate by weight of the composition.
28. A process of binding glass fibers comprising the steps of: providing glass fibers having a plurality of junctions; providing an emulsified glass fiber binding composition comprising: an effective binding amount of a furan resin; an effective emulsifying amount of an emulsifier agent; and a sufficient amount of water to result in a binding composition having from 0.5 to 80 % N.V. ; applying an effective amount of the binding composition to the newly formed glass fibers such that binder is present at a portion of the junctions; and curing the binder.
29. The method of claim 28 where the step of providing a binding composition having an effective binding amount of a furan resin further comprises providing the reaction product resulting from the polymerization reaction wherein at least one reagent is selected from the group consisting of the furan containing molecule having the general formula: 

and its saturated analogs thereof having 0 to 1 carbon- carbon double bonds, wherein X and Y are independently comprised of organic molecular groups.
30. The method of claim 29 where the step of providing a binding composition further comprises providing a binding composition having a furan resin comprising the reaction product where X and Y are independently comprised of molecular groups comprising one or more functional moieties selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, C^-C^ alkyl groups, polysubstituted vinyl radicals, polysubstituted aromatic groups, ketones, anhydrides, polysubstituted furfuryl, hydroxyls, aldehydes, carboxylic acids, esters, ethers, amines, amides, imines, imides, alkynes, alkyl halides, aromatic halides, olefinic halides, ethers, thiols, sulfides, nitriles, nitro groups, sulfones, sulfonic acids, carbofunctional siloxanes, and mixtures thereof.
31. The method of claim 16 wherein the step of providing a glass fiber binding composition further comprises providing a binding composition including 1 to 30 % urea.
32. The method of claim 16 wherein the step of providing a glass fiber binding composition further comprises providing a binding composition having an effective amount of a catalyst for curing the furan resin.
33. The method of claim 32 further comprising the step of providing a glass fiber binding composition comprising an effective amount of a catalyst for curing the furan resin selected 


from the group consisting of inorganic and organic acids and salts thereof, acid anhydrides, metal halides, and mixtures thereof.
34. The method of claim 16 where the step of applying an effective amount of the binding composition to the glass fibers further comprises applying from 1 to 25 % L.O.I..
35. The method of claim 16 where the step of providing glass fibers having a plurality of junctions further comprises providing newly formed glass fibers having a plurality of junctions.
36. The method of claim 16 where the step of curing the binder further comprises subjecting the glass fibers and applied binder to temperatures equal to or greater than 95 degrees C.
37. A glass fiber composition, comprising: a plurality of glass fibers having a plurality of junctions where two or more fibers meet; and an effective binding amount of an emulsified glass fiber binding composition comprising: an effective binding amount of a furan resin; an effective emulsifying amount of an emulsifier agent; and a sufficient amount of water to result in a binding composition having from 0.5 to 80 % N.V. ; the binding composition applied to at least a portion of the junctions of the glass fibers.
38. The glass fiber composition of claim 37 wherein the glass fiber binding composition has been cured.
39. The glass fiber composition of claim 37 where an effective binding amount of the glass fiber binding composition comprises from 1 to 25 % L.O.I.. 


 40. The glass fiber composition of claim 37 wherein the furan resin comprises the reaction product resulting from the polymerization reaction wherein at least one reagent is selected from the group consisting of the furan containing molecule having the general formula:
and its saturated analogs thereof having 0 to 1 carbon- carbon double bonds, wherein X and Y are independently comprised of organic molecular groups.
41. The glass fiber composition of claim 40 where X and
Y are independently comprised of molecular groups comprising one or more functional moieties selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, C^-C^ alkyl groups, polysubstituted vinyl radicals, polysubstituted aromatic groups, ketones, anhydrides, polysubstituted furfuryl, hydroxyls, aldehydes, carboxylic acids, esters, ethers, amines, amides, imines, imides, alkynes, alkyl halides, aromatic halides, olefinic halides, ethers, thiols, sulfides, nitriles, nitro groups, sulfones, sulfonic acids, carbofunctional siloxanes, and mixtures thereof.
42. " The glass fiber composition of claim 37 wherein the furan containing binder is in the B stage.
43. The glass fiber composition of claim 37 wherein the furan containing binder is in the C stage.
44. The glass fiber composition of claim 38 wherein the binder has been cured at temperatures greater than or equal to 95 degrees C for at least five minutes. 


 45. The glass fiber composition of claim 37 where the effective emulsifying amount of an emulsifier agent comprises: hydroxy propyl methyl cellulose. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
