<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643852</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ADAPTIVE MEMORY CONTROLLER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1202	G06F1202	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F12	G06F12	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The operating mode of a memory controller for a random access memory having multiplexed address lines is selected to provide the highest operating speed for the addresses being presented to the memory. Each address supplied to the memory includes a row address and a column address. A page fault detector detects a page fault when the row address changes on successive transfers to the memory and detects a non-page fault when the row address remains the same on successive transfers to the memory. The operating mode is automatically selected in response to the difference between the number of page faults and the number of non-page faults to provide the highest operating speed. When the difference between the number of page faults and the number of non-page faults is equal to or greater than an upper threshold value, the memory mode is set to non-page mode. When the difference between the number of page faults and the number of non-page faults is equal to or less than a lower threshold value, the memory mode is set to page mode.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CABLETRON SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CABLETRON SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARKER THOMAS B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARKER, THOMAS, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to methods and apparatus 
for controlling computer memories which have 
multiplexed addresses and, more particularly, to 
methods and apparatus for automatically selecting a 
mode of operation which provides the highest 
operating speed for the addresses being presented to 
the memory. Semiconductor memory devices can be classified 
as having a multiplexed address or a non-multiplexed 
address. In non-multiplexed address memories, the 
entire address is presented at one time, and the 
data transfer begins when the address has 
stabilized. In multiplexed address memories, a 
first portion of the address is presented to the 
memory and is strobed into the memory. Then, a 
second address portion is presented. When the 
second address portion is presented, the data  
 
transfer can take place. An example of a 
multiplexed address memory is a dynamic random 
access memory (DRAM). The industry currently offers 
three types of DRAM's. They are: "page mode", 
"nibble mode" and "static column mode" memories. In 
the case of a DRAM, the first address portion is a 
row address, and the second address portion is a 
column address. When a row address strobe (RAS) is 
asserted, the DRAM stores the row address 
internally. The column address is then presented to 
the memory and may be strobed in page mode or nibble 
mode DRAM's. Data transfer begins at the strobing 
of the column address. In the case of static column 
DRAM's, a column address strobe (CAS) is interpreted 
as a chip select rather than a strobe. This 
configuration allows the DRAM to temporarily 
function as a static random access memory as long as 
the row address remains constant. Each data 
transfer begins at the instant the new column 
address stabilizes. The DRAM accesses each new 
location defined by the column address in real 
time. Multiplexed address memories are typically 
smaller, have more storage capacity per unit area, 
consume less power, run cooler and cost less than 
equivalent non-multiplexed address memories. A disadvantage of multiplexed address memories 
is that time is consumed by serially strobing the 
first address portion and the second address portion 
into the memory in a two-step process. Thus, 
multiplexed address memories are typically slower  
 
and more complex than non-multiplexed address 
memories. One known technique for increasing the operating 
speed of multiplexed address memories is to operate 
in a page mode during memory access. In the page 
mode, a selected row address is strobed into the 
m
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for controlling a random access memory 
(12) having multiplexed address lines (24) for 

sequentially receiving a first address portion (A 
<
21:12
>
) and a 
second address portion (A 
<
11:2
>
) of an address, said memory 
(12) operating in non-page or page modes which 

respectively use or not use the receiving of said 
first address portion on said multiplexed address 

lines (24), said method including the steps of: 

sequentially supplying addresses (70) for 
accessing said memory, each address including a 

first address portion and a second address portion; 
detecting a page fault (72) when the first 
address portion changes on successive transfers to 

said memory and detecting a non-page fault when the 
first address portion remains the same on successive 

transfers to said memory; 
 
   characterized in that said method further 

includes the steps of: 

evaluating a difference (82, 86) between the 
nu
mber of page faults and the number of non-page 
faults during operation of said memory; and  

 
automatically selecting an operating mode (84, 
88) of said memory in response to said difference to 

provide the highest operating speed, wherein the 
step of automatically selecting the operating mode 

includes operating said memory in a non-page mode 
(88) when said difference is equal to or greater 

than an upper threshold value and operating said 
memory in a page mode (84) when said difference is 

equal to or less than a lower threshold value. 
A method as defined in claim 1 wherein said 
first address portion comprises a row address 

portion and wherein the step of detecting a page 
fault includes comparing row address portions of 

said address on successive transfers to said memory, 
a page fault being indicated when said row address 

portions are different on successive transfers to 
said memory. 
A method as defined in claim 2 wherein the step 
of evaluating said difference includes changing a 

count value in one direction (74) in response to 
each page fault and changing said count value in the 

opposite direction (76) in response to each non-page 
fault, said count value representing said difference.  

 
A method as defined in claim 1 wherein the step 
of automatically selecting the operating mode 

includes switching to a non-page mode (88) when said 
memory is operating in a page mode and said 

difference becomes equal to or greater than the 
upper threshold value limit, and switching to the 

page mode (84) when said memory is operating in the 
non-page mode and said difference becomes equal to 

or less than the lower threshold value. 
A method as defined in claim 4 wherein the step 
of automatically selecting the operating mode 

includes remaining in the same operating mode (90) 
when said difference is between said upper and lower 

threshold values. 
A method as defined in claim 2 wherein the step 
of evaluating said difference includes incrementing 

a count value in response to each page fault (74) 
and decrementing said count value in response to 

each non-page fault (76), said count value 
representing said difference. 
A method as defined in claim 6 further including 
the step of maintaining said count value within 

upper and lower count value limits.  
 
Apparatus for controlling a random access memory 
(12) having multiplexed address lines (24) for 

sequentially receiving a first address portion (A 
<
21:12
>
) and a 
second address portion (A 
<
11:2
>
) of an address, said memory 
(12) operating in non-page or page modes which 

respectively use or not use the receiving of said 
first address portion on said multiplexed address 

lines (24), said apparatus including: 

means (22) for sequentially supplying addresses 
for accessing said memory, each address including a 

first address portion and a second address portion; 
means (54) for detecting a page fault when the 
first address portion changes on successive 

transfers to said memory and for detecting a 
non-page fault when the first address portion 

remains the same on successive transfers to said 
memory; 
 
   characterized in that said apparatus further 

includes: 

means (60) for determining a difference between 
the number of page faults and the number of non-page 

faults during operation of said memory; and 
means (62) for automatically selecting an 
operating mode of said memory in response to said 

difference to provide the highest operating speed, 
wherein said means (62) for automatically selecting  

 
the operating mode includes means for operating said 

memory in a non-page mode when said difference is 
equal to or greater than an upper threshold value 

and for operating said memory in a page mode when 
said difference is equal to or less than a lower 

threshold value. 
Apparatus as defined in claim 8 wherein said 
means for detecting a page fault comprises means 

(56) for storing the first address portion of each 
address and means (54) for comparing a current first 

address portion with the previous first address 
portion and for providing a page fault signal when 

said first address portions are different on 
successive transfers to said memory. 
Apparatus as defined in claim 8 wherein said 
means for determining a difference includes a 

counter (60) and means (54) for incrementing said 
counter in response to each page fault and for 

decrementing said counter in response to each 
non-page fault, a count value in said counter 

representing said difference.  
 
Apparatus as defined in claim 10 further 
including means for maintaining the count value in 

said counter within upper and lower count value 
limits. 
Apparatus as defined in claim 8 wherein said 
means (62) for automatically selecting the operating 

mode includes means for switching to a non-page mode 
when said memory is operating in a page mode and 

said difference becomes equal to or greater than the 
upper threshold value and for switching to the page 

mode when said memory is operating in the non-page 
mode and said difference becomes equal to or less 

than the lower threshold value. 
Apparatus as defined in claim 12 wherein said 
means (62) for automatically selecting the operating 

mode includes means for remaining in the same 
operating mode when said difference is between said 

upper and lower threshold values. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
