<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619533</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fusing components containing grafted ceramer compositions
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C09D18310	C09D18310	G03G1520	G03G1520	C08G77442	C08G7700	B29D9900	B29D9900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C09D	C09D	G03G	G03G	C08G	C08G	B29D	B29D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C09D183	C09D183	G03G15	G03G15	C08G77	C08G77	B29D99	B29D99	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fuser member is disclosed with a supporting substrate having an outer layer of a 
composition comprising integral interpenetrating networks of haloelastomer, silica and 

polyorganosiloxane. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to a fuser member, a method for fabricating the fuser
member, and a method of fusing toner images in electrostatographic reproducing apparatus.
In particular, the present invention relates to a fuser member which may preferably take the
form of a fuser roll, pressure roll or release agent donor roll containing an overcoating of a
grafted ceramer composition.In a typical electrostatographic reproducing apparatus, a light image of an original to
be copied is recorded in the form of an electrostatic latent image upon a photosensitive
member and the latent image is subsequently rendered visible by the application of
electroscopic thermoplastic resin particles which are commonly referred to as toner. The visible
toner image is then in a loose powdered form and can be easily disturbed or destroyed. The
toner image is usually fixed or fused upon a support which may be the photosensitive member
itself or other support sheet such as plain paper.The use of thermal energy for fixing toner images onto a support member is well
known, and several approaches to thermal fusing of electroscopic toner images have been
described in the prior art. These methods include providing the application of heat and
pressure substantially concurrently by various means: a roll pair maintained in pressure
contact; a belt member in pressure contact with a roll; and the like. Heat may be applied by
heating one or both of the rolls, plate members or belt members. The fusing of the toner
particles takes place when the proper combination of heat, pressure and contact time are
provided. The balancing of these parameters to achieve the fusing of the toner particles is well
known in the art, and they can be adjusted to suit particular machines or process conditions.A recent development in fusing systems involves the use of fluoroelastomers as fuser
members which have a surface with a metal containing filler including metal oxide. The
polymeric release agents having functional groups interact with the metal containing filler in
the fluoroelastomer surface. Such fusing systems, fusing members and release agents, are
described in US-A-4,264,181, US-A-4,257,699 and US-A-4,272,179.However, a significant problem of the fluoroelastomer/metal oxide material such as
Viton/copper oxide is its relative instability against certain charge control additives which
reduces the life of the fusing components, especially for fusing of colored toner. Thus, there is
a need for a fusing component material which exhibits one or more
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A fuser member comprising a supporting substrate and a layer comprising integral
interpenetrating networks of haloelastomer, silica, and polyorganosiloxane.
The fuser member of claim 1, wherein the interpenetrating networks are
substantially uniform.
The fuser member of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the haloelastomer is a
fluoroelastomer.
The fuser member of claim 3, wherein the fluoroelastomer is selected from the group
consisting of poly(vinylidene fluoride-hexafluoro-propylene) and poly(vinylidene

fluoridehexafluoropropylene-tetrafluoroethylene).
The fuser member of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the polyorganosiloxane is
derived from a compound having the formula:



where R independently is an alkyl, alkenyl or aryl, wherein the aryl is optionally substituted
with an amino, hydroxy, mercapto or alkyl or alkenyl group; the functional group A is a mono-,

di- or trialkoxysilane, hydroxy, halogen, an alkene or alkyne wherein the alkene and alkyne of
the functional group A are optionally substituted with an alkyl or aryl; and n represents the

number of segments.
The fuser member of claim 5, wherein R is an alkyl having from 1 to 24 carbon atoms,
alkenyl having from 2 to 24 carbon atoms or aryl having from 6 to 24 carbon atoms, wherein

the aryl is optionally substituted with an amino, hydroxy, mercapto or alkyl having from 1 to 24
carbon atoms, or alkenyl group having from 2 to 24 carbon atoms; the functional group A is a

mono-, di- or trialkoxysilane having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms in each alkoxy group, hydroxy, 
halogen, an alkene having from 2 to 8 carbon atoms, or alkyne having from 2 to 8 carbon

atoms, wherein the alkene and alkyne of functional group A are optionally substituted with an
alkyl having from 1 to 24 carbon atoms or aryl having from 6 to 24 carbon atoms; and n is from

2 to 350.
A process for preparing a fuser member comprising: forming on a substrate a layer
comprising integral interpenetrating networks of haloelastomer, silica, and

polyorganosiloxane, wherein the networks are formed by the steps comprising in any effective
sequence dehydrohalogenating the haloelastomer with an amine coupler having one or more

functional groups and coupling the amine coupler thereto, hydrolyzing a silane compound,
coupling the amine coupler to the hydrolyzed silane compound, coupling a functionally

terminated polyorganosiloxane to one or more of the amine coupler, the silica network, and
the haloelastomer.
The process of claim 7, wherein the amine coupler is a primary, secondary or tertiary
aliphatic or aromatic amine where the aliphatic and aromatic groups have from 2 to 15 carbon

atoms, or aliphatic or aromatic diamines or triamines having from 2 to 15 carbon atoms.
The process of claim 7 or claim 8, wherein the silane compound is of the formula
Si(A)
4
, where A is a halogen; hydroxy; hydride; or OR, where R is an alkyl having from 1 to 24
carbon atoms.
A composition comprising substantially uniform integral interpenetrating networks
of haloelastomer, silica, and polyorganosiloxane.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
