<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650773</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Adjustable bar screen.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B07B112	B07B112	B07B116	B07B1300	B07B1316	B07B1318	D21B100	D21B102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B07B	B07B	B07B	B07B	B07B	B07B	D21B	D21B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B07B1	B07B1	B07B1	B07B13	B07B13	B07B13	D21B1	D21B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The bars (26,28) of one of two sets of interleaved screen 
bars is extended beyond the 

interleaved portion of the screen bed (36), thus forming a 
region of the screen bed (36) which has 

screens particles of intermediate dimensions. A second 
improvement is a clamping member (30,32) 

which holds the downwardly extending legs (27,29) of individual 
bars (26,28) of the screen. The clamping 

member (30,32) is a steel channel (46) which has a steeply peaked 
roof between legs (27,29) which sheds 

particles. The bar legs (27,29) fit into slots (58) which penetrate 
the peaked roof transverse to the 

lengthwise direction of the channel (46). The legs (27,29) are 
retained by transverse bolts (60) which pass 

through the vertical sidewalls (52) of the channel (46) and the 
legs (27,29), retaining and clamping them. The 

third improvement mounts the clamping member (30,32) to a 
flange (54,56) which may be traversed by a 

screw and bolt (84) arrangement such that the clamping 
member (30,32) may be adjusted in its lateral 

position. A fourth improvement is a clamping member (30,32) 
which extends longitudinally and 

which has a keyway (92) formed therein. Bars (26,28) with downwardly 
extending legs (27,29) extend 

transversely to the direction of the clamping member (30,32). 
The legs (27,29) have transverse keys (96) which fit 

into the keyway (92) formed in the clamping member (30,32). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BELOIT TECHNOLOGIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BELOIT TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BIELAGUS JOSEPH B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES RICHARD D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LYNN DARRELL J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BIELAGUS, JOSEPH B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES, RICHARD D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LYNN, DARRELL J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to apparatus for screening particulate material such as 
wood chips in general, and in particular to bar screen apparatus having a screening deck 
defining a screening area, wherein the deck is formed of a series of parallel bars with spaces 
therebetween. In a common process for the manufacture of pulp for producing paper, logs are 
reduced to chips by chipping mechanisms, and the chips are cooked with chemicals at 
elevated pressures and temperature to remove lignin. The chipping mechanisms produce 
chips which vary considerably in size and shape. For the cooking process, which is known as 
digesting, it is desirable that the chips supplied have a uniform thickness in order to achieve 
optimum yield and quality; that is, to obtain a pulp which contains a low percentage of  
 
undigested and/or over-treated fibers. Under preferred conditions of digesting, the pulping 
chemicals or liquor penetrate into chips uniformly. If chips are provided which have too 
great a thickness, the liquor may not adequately penetrate the chips and the digester will 
produce chips with a core of under-digested fibers. If chips are provided which are too thin, 
the digester will produce chips that are overcooked and of low quality. To insure proper 
delignification of the chips in the production of pulp, the supply should not contain chips 
having an excessive thickness which will give rise to lack of adequate penetration during the 
digestion process, nor chips which are overly thin and may be over-treated during the 
digestion process. Two types of apparatus has been provided heretofore for screening chips to separate 
the over-thick and under-thick chips from those within the desired thickness range. One type 
of screening device is a disk screen. A disk screen has a plurality of generally circular disks 
mounted on parallel, rotating shafts. The disks are mounted coaxially on each shaft and 
spaced from each other, and the disks interleave with the disks of adjacent shafts to form 
screening gaps between the disks of one shaft and the disks of adjacent shafts. Through 
proper disk spacing, the screen can be used to separate either under-size or over-size chips 
from a stream of chips supplied to the screen. A second type of screening apparatus for wood chips or the like which has 
substantially higher industrial capacity than a disk screen is a bar screen. A bar screen has a 
screening deck or bed which extends substantially horizontally, thus providing a large 
screening area. Chips are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In a bar screen for screening wood chips or waste having at least a first rack of 
parallel bars and a second rack of parallel bars, the bars of the first rack being interleaved 

with the bars of the second rack to define a first screen width between a bar of the first rack 
and a bar of the second rack, and the racks each being driven to oscillate in at least a vertical 

plane; wherein the improvement comprises: 
   portions of at least some of the bars of the first rack which extend an effective 

distance beyond the bars of the second rack, to form a middling screen of first 
rack bars spaced apart a second screen width which is greater than the first 

screen width. 
The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein the portions of the first set of bars which 
extend beyond the bars of the second rack extend at an angle of between ten degrees and 

thirty degrees with respect to the plane of the bars of the second rack. 
The apparatus of Claim 1, where alternating bars of the first rack do not extend 
beyond the bars of the second rack, to define a second screen width which is greater than the 

width between bars of the first rack within the first screen. 
A bar screen for screening wood chips or waste having at least a first and a 
second sets of bars forming at least a first rack and a second rack; the bars of the first rack 

interleaving with the bars of the second rack, and the racks each being driven to oscillate in 
at least a vertical plane, the interdigitating bars forming screening gaps between the bars; 

wherein each bar of the first and second racks has a downwardly extending leg which is 
connected to a clamping member which ri
des on an oscillating member, the improvement 
comprising: 

   portions of the clamping member which define two upwardly extending side walls, and 
the side walls are joined by a peaked roof having two inclined segments, wherein the inclined 

segments extend upwardly between bar legs so material moving through the screen more 
readily slides off the clamping member. 
The bar screen of claim 4 wherein the clamping member peaked roof has 
portions defining transversely extending slots; and wherein the legs extend through the slots 

and between the clamping member side walls; and wherein the bolts extend through the side 
walls, the bolts being adjacent to and between the legs, the bolts urging the side walls toward 

each other, thus clamping the legs between the side walls. 
The bar screen of claim 4 wherein the clamping member peaked roof has 
portions defining transversely extending slots; and wherein the legs extend through the slots 

and between the clamping member side walls; and wherein the bolts extend through the side 
walls, at a location spaced from a leg, the bolts urging the side walls toward each other, thus 

clamping the legs between the side walls. 
The bar screen of claim 4 wherein the clamping member peaked roof has 
portions defining transversely extending slots; and wherein the legs extend through the slots 

and between the clamping member side walls; and wherein the bolts extend through the side 
walls and urge the side walls toward each other, thus clamping the legs between the side 

walls. 
The bar screen of claim 4 further comprising: 
a plurality of bolts having shanks of a first width which extend between and connect 

the clamping member and the oscillating member, and 
portions of the clamping member which define oversized bolt holes of a width greater 

than the bolt shank first width, wherein the a clamp side wall may be moved 
closer to another side wall while the clamp remains attached to the oscillating 

member to clamp the legs. 
The bar screen of claim 4 further comprising; 
portions of the legs which define bolt holes extending between the clamp side 

walls; and 
bolts which extend through the side walls and the leg bolt holes to pin the legs to the 

clamp. 
A bar screen for screening particulate matter, comprising: 
a first set of bars forming a first rack; 

a second set of bars forming a second rack, wherein the bars of the first rack 
interleave with the bars of the second rack, the interleaved bars forming screening gaps 

therebetween; 
a leg extending downwardly from each bar in the first rack; 

a clamping member which engages each leg; 
an oscillating beam beneath the clamping member, the oscillating beam driving the 

first rack to oscillate in at least a vertical plane; 
a positioning bracket fixed to the clamping member and a adjustably engaged with the 

oscillating beam for positioning the clamping member with respect to the oscillating beam. 
The bar screen of claim 10 further comprising: 
   a plurality of ears which extend from the oscillating beam; and 

   a rod which extends between the ears and the positioning bracket, wherein the 
positioning bracket is selectably positionable along the rod to adjust the position of the 

clamping member with respect to the oscillating beam. 
The bar screen of claim 11 wherein the rod is threaded, and nuts are threaded 
on the rod to be positioned adjacent the ears and the bracket. 
The bar screen of claim 10 further comprising: 
a plurality of bolts having shanks of a first width which extend between and connect 

the clamping member and the oscillating member; and 
portions of the clamping member which define oversized bolt holes of a width greater 

than the bolt shank first width, wherein the a clamping member has side walls 
which may be moved closer to one another while the clamp remains attached 

to the oscillating member to clamp the legs between the side walls. 
A bar screening apparatus for separating a particulate material such as municipal 
waste or wood chips; the apparatus comprising: 

a screen rack defining a screening area with screening openings and extending from a 
receiving end to a discharge end, with delivery means for distributing material 

onto the screening rack at the receiving end to move toward the discharge end 
so that large material moves longitudinally the length of the deck from the 

receiving end to the discharge end, and smaller material passes through the 
screening deck; 

the rack having a plurality of individual screening bars extending from the receiving 
end to the discharge end and arranged in spaced relationship to define openings 

therebetween for passing therebetween the smaller material the rack being 
driven to oscillate in at least a vertical plane, wherein each bar in the racks has 

downwardly extending legs which join the bars of the racks to a clamping plate 
which rides on an oscillating member; 

portions of the clamping plate which define a keyway extending transverse to the 
screening bars; and 

portions of the bar legs which form a protruding key which engages the keyway, the 
engagement of the protruding key and recessed keyway serving to position the 

bars and hold the bars against tilting. 
In a screen apparatus for separating a particulate material such as wood chips 
based on material thickness, wherein the apparatus includes a plurality of parallel bars 

defining therebetween screen openings, and the bars are mounted for substantial vertical and 
horizontal movement, with adjacent bars being collectively mounted in first and second racks 

and moving in opposite directions, the improvement comprising: 
a clamping plate having portions defining a keyway extending transverse to the 

screening bars, wherein the bars have legs, and each leg has a transverse 
protruding key thereon which engages the plate keyway, the engaged key and 

keyway portioning the bar and holding it against tilting. 
A bar screen for screening wood chips or waste; the apparatus 
comprising: 

a first set of parallel bars which define a first rack; 
a second set of parallel bars which define a second rack, wherein the bars of the first 

rack interleave with the bars of the second rack, and wherein the interleaved 
bars form screening gaps therebetween; 

a leg which extends downwardly from each bar; 
a clamping plate which is engaged with the legs of the bars of the first rack, wherein 

the clamping plate rides on a oscillating member, and is the first rack being 
thereby driven to oscillate in at least a vertical plane : 

portions of the clamping plate which define a slot which extends transverse to the 
screening bars, the slot having substantially parallel upper and lower slot 

surfaces; and 
a protruding key formed on each bar leg which extends into the slot in the clamping 

plate, the key having substantially parallel upper and lower surfaces which 
engage the upper and lowers slot surfaces, respectively, of the keyway, thereby 

limiting the tilting of the bars. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
