<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649523</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
BIOASSAY FOR THE SCREENING OF ION CHANNEL ACTIVE MOLECULES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K4100	A61K4100	A61K4748	A61K4748	G01N2119	G01N2119	G01N33543	G01N33543	G01N3368	G01N3368	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K41	A61K41	A61K47	A61K47	G01N21	G01N21	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention relates generally to a bioassay technique to measure the interaction of molecules with ion channels and in particular, sodium channels. More specifically, the present invention relates to the use of circular dichroism to diagnose ion channel, i.e., potassium, calcium and preferably sodium channel disease or dysfunction and a method for screening ion channel active molecules. This invention further provides a novel means to treat cancer associated with diseased dysfunction of ion channels, and especially sodium channel thermal proteins.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NICKEL ALFRED A
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NICKEL, ALFRED A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NICKEL ALFRED A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NICKEL, ALFRED A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
BIOASSAY FOR THE SCREENING OF ION CHANNEL ACTIVE MOLECULES.Field of the InventionThis invention relates generally to a bioassay technique to measure the interaction of molecules with ion channels and in particular, sodium channels. More specifically, the present invention relates to the use of circular dichroism to diagnose ion channel, i.e., potassium, calcium and preferably sodium channel disease or dysfunction and a method for screening ion channel active molecules. This invention further provides a novel means to treat cancer associated with diseased dysfunction of ion channels, and especially sodium channel thermal proteins.Background of the InventionThe ion channel, especially the sodium channel is a transmembrane protein responsible for the voltage-dependent modulation of the sodium ion permeability of excitable membranes and thus plays an essential role in generating action potentials. Hille, B. , Ionic Channels of Excitable Membranes, Sinauer, Sunderland, MA (1984) . Propagation of the action potential in nerve and muscle cells is 

generally thought to occur by transient changes in the permeability of the cell membrane to Na+, K++ or Ca++ ions via a specific channel. Two events can be distinguished in the passage of Na+, K+ or Ca++ through the channel: 1) selective filtering and 2) rapid increase in the permeability to Na+, K+ or Ca++ by a gating type of mechanism. Angelides, K.J. and T.J. Nuttov, J. Biol. Chem. 258:11858-11867 (1981). In addition, ion channels may be either voltage gated (e.g., Na+ and Ca2+ channels) implying that current is gated (or regulated) by membrane potential (voltage) , or chemically gated (e.g., acetylcholine receptors and 7-aminobutyric acid receptors) implying that current is gated primarily by binding of a chemical rather than by the membrane potential. Butterworth, J.F. and G.R. Strichartz, Anesthesioloqy 72:711-734 (1980) .Sodium channels have been isolated and purified by biochemical methods. See, Mer sey, B.D., U.S. Patent 4,895,807 (1990). Recently, sodium channels from the electric organ of the eel and rat brain have been cloned and sequenced. Kayano, et al. FEBS LETTERS 28: 181-184 (1988) . The amino acid sequences of the Na+ channel found in eel electroplax has been deduced from its gene sequence. From this deduction, Kayano, et al. propose that the channel has large hydrophobic regions, probably in α-helical conformations that span the membrane, interspersed with hydrophilic regions to form a Na-t- ion conducting "pore" of the channel. It is believed
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A method for determining abnormality in the structural of an ion channel thermal protein comprising the steps of: (a) forming a mixture of a protein and a molecule capable of blocking or preventing the normal function of the sodium channel in an excitable cell,
(b) subjecting a mixture to circular dichroism at a wave length of 222nM wave length measuring the transition of molar elliptcity while varying the temperature of said mixture between 25-50°C, and
(c) comparing said transition with the transition of molar elliptcity of a controlled protein.
2. The method of Claim 1 wherein the molecule is selected from the group consisting of lidocaine, derivatives of lidocaine, an anesthetic other than lidocaine and its derivatives.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the molecule has a binding site on sodium channels and said binding site is directly or indirectly linked with the binding site of lidocaine; said molecule being selected from the group consisting of: (a) tetrodotoxin and its derivatives that are capable of blocking the sodium currents; (b) batrachotoxin, veratridine and their lipophilic derivatives and analogs that are capable of activating sodium channels; (c) α-, or 3-scorpion toxins, sea anemone polypeptide neurotoxins and their respective 


derivatives that are capable of prolonging the open status of sodium channels; (d) DDT and synthetic pyrechroid insecticides and their analogs that are capable of activating sodium channels; and (e) compounds that are capable of blocking sodium channels in a manner different from tetrodotoxin and possess anticonvulsant and/or antiarrhythmic activity.
4. The method of Claim 1 wherein the protein is obtained from the excitable tissues derived from a diseased mammal and said diseases are selected from the group consisting of CNS diseases, cardiac disease, peripheral nervous system disease and tumor.
5. The method of Claim 4 wherein the diseases are cardiac arrhythmias, angina rectoris, cystic fibrosis, myotonia and epilepsies.
6. The method of Claim 1 wherein the temperature of the mixture is between 30-35°C and the molecule is selected from Claim 2.
7. A method for determining when a compound is capable of blocking or impairing the sodium channel, comprising:
(a) forming a mixture of a protein and a compound capable of blocking or preventing the normal function of the sodium channel in an excitable cell and the test compound,
(b) subjecting a mixture to circular dichroism at a wave length of 222nM wave length measuring the transition of molar ellipticity 


 while varying the temperature of said mixture between 25-50°C, and
(c) comparing said transition with the transition of molar ellipticity of a controlled protein alone and a mixture of the protein and said compound capable of blocking or preventing the normal function of the sodium channel in an excitable cell.
8. The method of Claim 7 wherein the molecule is selected from the group consisting of lidocaine, derivatives of lidocaine, an anesthetic other than lidocaine and its derivatives.
9. The method of claim 7 wherein the molecule has a binding site on sodium channels and said binding site is directly or indirectly linked with the binding site of lidocaine; said molecule being selected from the group consisting of: (a) tetrodotoxin and its derivatives that are capable of blocking the sodium currents; (b) batrachotoxin, veratridine and their lipophilic derivatives and analogs that are capable of activating sodium channels; (c) - , or 3-scorpion toxins, 3ea anemone polypeptide neurotoxins and their respective derivatives that are capable of prolonging the open status of sodium channels; (d) DDT and ε thetic pyrechroid insecticides and their analog-, that are capable of activating sodium c mels; and (e) compounds that are capable of I king - iur channels in a manner different om te
J
 ot in and possess anticonvulsant and/or'antiarrhytnmic activity. 


 10. The method of Claim 4 wherein the protein is obtained from the excitable tissues derived from a diseased mammal and said diseases are selected from the group consisting of CNS diseases, cardiac disease, peripheral nervous system disease and tumor.
11. The method of Claim 10 wherein the diseases are cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, cystic fibrosis, myotonia and epilepsies.
12. The method of Claim 7 wherein the temperature of the mixture is between 30-35°C and the molecule is selected from Claim 2.
13. The method of claim 1 wherein the protein is derived from excitable cells of non-mammal origin such as insects or plants and the molecule interacting with said neuroreceptor is capable of expressing a pesticidal activity against said insects or plants.
14. A composition for treating abnormality of the sodium channel, said composition being characterized as having the capability of blocking or preventing the normal function of the sodium channel in an excitable cell when subjected to circular dichroism at a wave length of 222nM wave length at a temperature of 25-50°C
15. A method for treating cancer comprising the steps of:
(a) administrating a radiosensitive molecule to a tumor cell of an animal; said tumor cell having 


dysfunctional sodium channels and said molecule is capable of interacting with said channels;
(b) allowing binding of said molecule to said channel site; (c) activating said molecule by subjecting the loci of said tumor cell to a device capable of generating high energy radiation; and
(d) destroying said tumor cell by radiation released from said radiosentisized molecule.
16. The method of Claim 15 wherein the molecule is selected from the group consisting of derivatives of lidocaine, an anesthetic other than lidocaine and its derivatives.
17. The method of claim 15 wherein the molecule has a binding site on sodium channels and said binding site is directly or indirectly linked with the binding site of lidocaine; said molecule being selected from the group consisting of: (a) tetrodotoxin and its derivatives that are capable of blocking the sodium currents; (b) batrachotoxin, veratridine and their lipophilic derivatives and analogs that are capable of activating sodium channels; (c) α-, or 3-scorpion toxins, sea anemone polypeptide neurotoxins and their respective derivatives that are capable of prolonging the open status of sodium channels; (d) DDT and synthetic pyrethroid insecticides and their analogs that are capable of activating sodium channels; and (e) compounds that are capable of blocking sodium channels in a manner different from tetrodotoxin and possess anticonvulsant and/or antiarrhythmic activity. 


 18. The method of Claim 15 wherein the device capable of generating high energy radiation is a particle beam high energy radiation.
19. The method of Claim 15 wherein the mode of molecule entry is intravenous administration. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
