<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620453</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Verfahren und Geraet, die einen magnetischen Dipol detektieren und lokalisieren
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01V3165	G01V308	G01V308	G01V315	G01B7004	G01B7004	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01V	G01V	G01V	G01V	G01B	G01B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01V3	G01V3	G01V3	G01V3	G01B7	G01B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A synthetic array comprising a moving magnetic sensor that provides a signal 
representative of an array of magnetic sensors is coupled to a digital signal processor is 

used to break a magnetic dipole field into its components, and a magnetic signature of 
the present magnetic field is created. Predicted dipole signatures are precomputed for 

multiple magnetic orientations of the dipole at each of a plurality of range locations, 
expressed in terms of Anderson functions, which are a set of equations that decompose 

the magnetic field in each of the magnetic response locations, and are stored in a lookup 
table for reference. Input data measured by the moving synthetic array are processed 

and each magnetic value is predicted to process against background noise. A long term 
time average consistent with the relative motion of the dipole is computed using bandpass 

filtering of the signals from the synthetic array. The bandpass filtered data is used 
to update the predicted data so that anomalies and other non-dipole data is removed 

from the signals that are processed. The data are then expressed in terms of Anderson 
functions. The data are matched filtered, wherein it is correlated with the stored precomputed 

predicted dipole signatures. The correlation yields a set of values that is then 
thresholded. If a dipole is present at any of the locations, then the correlated normalized 

value computed as stated above will be higher than the chosen threshold. The 

dipole locations that are above the threshold are then displayed on a monitor showing 
the relative location and dipole orientation. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BREED BEN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EATON WILBUR W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LO ALLEN K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BREED, BEN R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EATON, WILBUR W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LO, ALLEN K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to method and apparatus that provide for
dipole moment detection and localization, and more particularly,
that provide for dipole moment detection and localization using synthetic aperture
array.Conventional magnetic anomaly detection systems employ proximity detection
of a magnetic dipole. Typical of this type of system is the well known airborne magnetic
anomaly detection system that is towed by a P3 aircraft, for example. In this
system, detection is performed using a single sensor to detect a change in the total local
magnetic field. The disadvantage of this approach is the limited amount data generated
by the system, in that it provides for no dipole direction, no dipole orientation, gross
localization and the system has relatively low processing gain.To overcome the limitations of such conventional magnetic anomaly detection
systems, an improved dipole moment detector and localizer system assigned to the
assignee of the present invention is disclosed in U.S. patent application Serial No.
07/616,158, filed November 20, 1990 (US-A-5 239 474). In this dipole moment detector and localizer
system, the detection and localization is accomplished using the outputs from a fixed
vector-magnetometer array. The dipole moment detector and localizer described in this
patent application has yielded dramatic performance improvement over the current
magnetic anomally detection (MAD) systems that use a single sensor to detect a change
in the total local magnetic field derived from a dipole.Thus, it would be an improvement in the art to have a system and method that
provides dipole detection and the localization and orientation of the dipole. FR-A-2142181 describes a system for determining the
depth of a magnetic dipole, such as a submarine. A moving
magnetic sensor in an aircraft detects both the magnetic
field and the magnetic field gradient at each of a plurality
of positions so as to determine the horizontal component of
the magnetic dipole.In a paper by K. Mori entitled "Application of Weight
Functions to the Magnetic Localization of an Object" in IEEE
Transactions on Magnetics, Vol. 25, No. 3, May 1989, pp.
2726-2731, there are described methods of determining the
position of magnetized objects using an array of
magnetometers to measure, or calculate, components of the
sensed magnetic field.In a paper by P. Carelli and R. Leoni entitled
"Localization of Biological Sources with Arrays of
Superconducting Gradiometers" in J. Appl. Phys., Vol. 59(2),
15th January 1986, pp.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of detecting and localizing a magnetic dipole
comprising the steps of:


sensing the magnetic dipole using a moving magnetic
sensor that is moved relative to the location of a magnetic

dipole to synthesize a plurality of output signals that are
representative of a plurality of spatially distributed

magnetic sensors and that are indicative of the magnetic
field sensed thereby;
generating a magnetic signature produced by the
magnetic field and the dipole which represents a magnetic

response function of the dipole by processing the output
signals from the moving magnetic sensor; and
processing the magnetic response function to extract
predetermined features therefrom that are indicative of the

location of the magnetic dipole;

   characterised in that:

the processing of the output signals serves to
decompose the magnetic field into its magnetic field

components; and in that
said predetermined features are indicative of the
relative orientation of the magnetic dipole.
A method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising the
steps of:


forming a normalized estimate of the magnetic field to
be sensed by the moving magnetic sensor that is moved

relative to the location of the magnetic dipole using known
magnetic dipole orientations located at each of a plurality

of preselected locations to provide an array of estimated
signals; and
processing the estimated signals to produce a first set
of Anderson function expansion coefficients representative

of each of the estimate signals, and storing the Anderson
functions;

   wherein the processing steps comprise:

removing spatial and temporal variations in the 
magnetic field measured by the sensor by temporally and

spatially smoothing the measured magnetic field signals;
processing the temporally and spatially smoothing the
measure magnetic field signals to produce a second set of

Anderson function expansion coefficients representative of
each of the measured magnetic field signals;
correlating (36) the first and second sets of Anderson
function expansion coefficients to produce a response

function for the magnetic dipole location;
identifying the location of the dipole if one of the
correlations has a significantly larger value than the

others, if it is greater than a predetermined threshold and
if the location of the dipole corresponds to the location

represented by the measured magnetic field signals that
produced the significantly larger value.
A method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising the
steps of:


forming an estimate of the magnetic field using the
moving magnetic sensor that is moved relative to the

location of the magnetic dipole that provides signals
representative of an array of sensors, assuming that there

is a magnetic dipole located at each of a plurality of
selected locations relative to the moving sensor, to provide

for calculated estimate values; and
storing the estimate values;

   wherein the processing steps comprise:

removing the spatial and temporal variations present
in the measured magnetic field caused by the naturally

occurring background using temporal and spatial smoothing
techniques;
correlating (36) the measured values with each of the
calculated estimate values for the synthesized array of

sensors, by multiplying the calculated estimate values with
the measured values and summing the results over the

synthesized array of sensors;
and, if one of the resulting correlations has a

significantly larger value than the others and if it is 
greater than a predetermined threshold, declaring a

detection for the location corresponding to the calculated
values which resulted in said one correlation value.
Apparatus for detecting and localizing a magnetic
dipole (12) comprising:


a moving magnetic sensor (11;53) for sensing the
magnetic dipole to provide a synthesized signal

representative of an array of spatially distributed magnetic
sensors that each provide output signals that are indicative

of the magnetic field sensed thereby;
processing means (20) for generating a magnetic
signature of the magnetic field produced by the magnetic

dipole (12) which represents a magnetic response function of
the dipole (12) by processing the synthesized output signals

from the magnetic sensor (11;53) and for processing the
magnetic response function to extract predetermined features

therefrom that are indicative of the location of the
magnetic dipole (12);

   characterised in that:

said processing means (20) is arranged so to process
the synthesized output signals to decompose the magnetic

field into its magnetic field components and such that the
predetermined features are indicative of the relative

orientation of the dipole (12).
Apparatus as claimed in claim 4, wherein the processing
means (20) is arranged:


for storing an estimate of the magnetic field signature
to be detected by the moving sensor (11;53) using a known

set of magnetic dipole orientations at each of a plurality
of preselected locations to provide an array of estimate

signals that are represented by a first set of Anderson
functions;
for removing spatial and temporal variations in the
output signals of the magnetic sensor (11;53) array by

temporally and spatially smoothing the measured magnetic
field signals; 
for processing the temporally and spatially smoothed
magnetic field signals to produce a second set of Anderson

functions representative of each of the magnetic field
signals;
for correlating the first and second sets of Anderson
functions and for summing the results over the array of

sensors to produce a response function for the magnetic
dipole location; and
for identifying the location of the dipole (12) if one
of the correlations has a significantly larger value than

the others, and if it is greater than a predetermined
threshold and if the location of the dipole (12) corresponds

to the location represented by the measured magnetic field
signals that produced in the significantly larger value; and
display means (40) for displaying the location of the
identified dipole (12).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
