<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640352</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Preparation of a skin surface for a surgical procedure
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K4706	A61K31155	A61K4710	A61P1700	A61K4708	A61K3144	A61K970	A61K4706	A61K4714	A61K31155	A61K3318	A61K3318	A61L2600	A61L2600	A61K970	A61K4708	A61K4714	A61K4500	A61K3144	A61K4500	A61K4710	A61P1700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61P	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61L	A61L	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K47	A61K31	A61K47	A61P17	A61K47	A61K31	A61K9	A61K47	A61K47	A61K31	A61K33	A61K33	A61L26	A61L26	A61K9	A61K47	A61K47	A61K45	A61K31	A61K45	A61K47	A61P17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A film forming composition for preparation of a skin surface as a surgical site includes a 
film forming material and a antimicrobial agent soluble in a fugitive solvent
. The composition 
when applied to the skin surface forms a substantially water insoluble, substantially tack-free 

flexible film adherent to the skin surface. The film is capable of releasably retaining the 
antimicrobial agent to substantially inhibit microbial growth on the skin surface. The film releases 

sufficient antimicrobial agent to substantially eliminate the microorganisms normally present on 
the skin surface to prepare the surface for the procedure and continues to release the antimicrobial 

agent during the procedure and subsequent wound healing. A preferred embodiment of the 
composition includes at least one compound for providing a first color indicative of the skin 

surface area covered by the composition and develops a second color upon the substantial 
elimination of the fugitive solvent indicating that the site is ready. A method for use of the 

composition to prepare a skin surface for a surgical procedure includes providing the 
composition, observing the first color for indicating the skin area covered and the second color 

indicating that the fugitive solvent has substantially evaporated. A single use kit for preparing a 
skin surface for a surgical procedure includes a non-resealable unit container of the film forming 

composition and an applicator in a non-resealable package. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BECTON DICKINSON CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOANG MINH QUANG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KHAN MOHAMMAD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOANG, MINH QUANG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KHAN, MOHAMMAD A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a kit and a film forming composition for surgical site
preparation on skin surface. More specifically the invention relates to a film forming composition
having an antimicrobial agent that is released onto the skin.The normal surface of the skin has a multiplicity of microorganisms on it. As long as the
skin surface is intact, the microorganisms generally present no problem to the body, achieving
some natural balance with each other. When a surgical procedure is conducted which breaches
the natural barrier formed by the skin, it is important that these normally present microorganisms
be prevented from entering the wound. Various protocols to reduce or eliminate skin
microorganisms have been developed and are generally practiced rigorously. The protocols
generally involve a thorough scrubbing of the skin surface with an antimicrobial agent, possibly
shaving the area if hair is present, and draping the patient with sterile drapes so that only the
immediate area of the procedure is exposed. Following the procedure, the wound area is covered
with a dressing for isolation until healing is substantially complete.These procedures are generally successful, with the occurrence of post-surgical
infections
being maintained at a low level in most institutions. The goal of all these practices is to rapidly
decrease the microbial count present on the skin, then prevent regrowth of the organisms during
the period when the surgical site is open and during the subsequent healing process.Many of the common protocols require scrubbing the surgical site with isopropyl alcohol
for a prescribed time or scrubbing the site with an iodophor such as polyvinylpyrrolidone iodine or
other antimicrobial agent. The area is then draped with sterile drapes leaving only the actual
surgical field area exposed. During the procedure, the freshly scrubbed site may be subjected to
blood, various body fluids and saline washes coupled with mechanical abrasion by sponges and
the like. The effect of these washes may be to remove any residual antimicrobial agent, reinfect 
the surface and allow a regrowth of microorganisms that potentially may enter the open wound.
Several workers have addressed the problem of surgical site preparation by incorporation of an
antimicrobial agent into a material that forms a film when applied to skin surface. United States
Patent 4,374,126 to Cardelli et al. teaches a composition and method for forming a film from an
alcohol soluble carboxylated polyacrylate which includes an antimicrobial
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A film forming composition for surgical site preparation on a skin surface
comprising:


a fugitive solvent;
a film forming material soluble in said solvent;
an antimicrobial agent soluble in said solvent capable of being releasably
retained in said film forming material; and
said film forming material and said antimicrobial agent when applied to the skin
surface from said fugitive solvent, forming a substantially water insoluble, substantially

tack-free flexible film adherent to the skin surface, said film capable of releasing said
antimicrobial agent in a quantity sufficient to substantially inhibit microbial growth on

the skin surface
said film forming material further including at least one compound having a first
colour for providing a visual indication of the area of skin surface covered and a second

colour when said fugitive solvent is substantially eliminated, thereby providing a visual
indication that said film is dry and the surgical site is ready and a plasticizing agent for

increasing the flexibility of said film.
The composition of claim 1 wherein said indicating means comprises
orthophenyl phenol, sodium salt, and a quantity of a dye selected from the group

consisting of Food Drug and Cosmetic Red No. 40 and Drug and Cosmetic Red No. 17,
sufficient to provide a purple colour on the skin surface when said fugitive solvent is

present and a red colour on the skin surface when said fugitive solvent is substantially
eliminated. 
The composition of claim 1 or 2 wherein said antimicrobial agent is present in a
quantity sufficient to substantially inhibit microbial growth on the surface of skin, said

agent being selected from the group consisting of iodophors, chlorophenols, biguanides,
antibiotics and biologically active salts thereof.
The composition of any preceding claim wherein said fugitive solvent is
selected from the group consisting of isopropanol, ethanol, ethylene dichloride, acetone,

ethyl acetate and 1,1,2-trichloro-trifluoroethane.
The composition of any preceding claim wherein said film forming material is
selected from the group consisting of ethyl cellulose, methoxy cellulose, hydroxyethyl

cellulose, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, vinyl acetate, and cross linked pyrrolidone and further
includes a plasticizing agent for increasing the flexibility of said film selected from the

group consisting of polyethylene glycol, polyoxypropylene glycol,
polyoxyethylenepropylene glycol, glycerin, polyoxyethylene-polyoxypropylene block

copolymer, cottonseed oil, palm oil, rapeseed oil, sunflower oil, castor oil and
poly(tetrahydrofuran).
A film forming composition for preparing skin as a site for a surgical procedure
comprising a homogeneous solution of:


Ingredient
Amount (Parts/Hundred, {wt./wt.})
propylene glycol methyl ether
about 10 to about 50
ethyl cellulose
about 2.5 to about 4.5
polyoxypropylene glycol
about 2 to about 4
Drug and Cosmetic red no. 17
about 0.001 to about 0.015
orthophenyl phenol, sodium salt
about 0.1 to about 1.0
chlorhexidine diacetate
about 0.5 to about 10
isopropyl alcohol
quantity sufficient to make 100 parts
said composition for application to a skin surface from said isopropyl alcohol as
a fugitive solvent;
said ethyl cellulose, propylene glycol methyl ether and polyoxypropylene glycol
forming a skin adherent flexible film capable of releasably containing said

chlorhexidine diacetate as an antimicrobial agent, thereby forming a substantially water
insoluble, substantially tack-free flexible film;
said Drug and Cosmetic red No. 17 and said orthophenyl phenol, sodium salt,
providing said composition a first colour indicating an area of the skin surface covered

and a second colour indicating substantial elimination of said fugitive solvent after said
composition is applied to the skin surface; and
said antimicrobial agent being releasably retained in said film and capable of
being released in a quantity sufficient for substantially inhibiting microbial growth on

the skin surface.
A kit for preparing a skin surface site for a surgical procedure comprising:

a sealed unit container for containing a film forming composition including an
homogenous solution of a fugitive solvent, a film forming material comprising ethyl

cellulose, propylene glycol methyl ether, polyoxypropylene glycol, chlorhexidine
diacetate and isopropyl alcohol and an antimicrobial agent in a quantity sufficient to

substantially eliminate microbial growth on the skin surface, said film forming
composition further comprising sufficient orthophenyl phenol, sodium salt, a
nd Drug
and Cosmetic red no. 17 to provide a purple colour on the skin surface when said

fugitive solvent is present and a red colour on the skin surface when said fugitive
solvent is substantial eliminated;
means for applying said film forming composition to a skin surface; and
a package holding said sealed unit container and said means for applying.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
