<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659142</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CONTAINER ADAPTED FOR STACKING AND BLANK STRUCTURE FOR FORMING IT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D532	B65D2102	B65D500	B65D2102	B65D500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D5	B65D21	B65D5	B65D21	B65D5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A container (10) formed by wrapping a slotted flexible sheet (12) about rigid end panels (14) having projections (22) that extend through the slots. The projections include stacking projections which engage recesses in the end panels of adjacent stacked containers and support projections at the corners. The support projections engage each other when the containers are stacked to provide resistance to lateral loading. At least one end of the flexible sheet terminates in the top panel and engages a wedge-shaped projection on the end panels to lock that end of the sheet in place. The other end may be similarly locked in place or may overlap the first end and be held in place by a tab and slot arrangement. Alternatively, the other end portion of the sheet may include a lid which is held in place by mechanical tabs, while intermediate edges spaced from the end engage the wedge-shaped projections.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RIVERWOOD INT CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROSS JOHN A
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RIVERWOOD INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROSS, JOHN, A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSS JOHN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHUSTER RICHARD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSS, JOHN, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHUSTER, RICHARD, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a container according to the
preamble of claim 1 and a blank structure for forming same
as defined in the preamble of claim 16. It thus deals with
packaging and shipping containers which need not be fully
enclosed but must be sturdy enough to protect the contents
during handling and shipment. More particularly, the
invention relates to a container of this type which is
adapted to be stacked.Articles such as produce ideally should be packaged in
containers which protect the contents against bruising or
other damage during shipment and handling. They should also
present an appealing appearance so that they can be used as
retail packages after reaching their final destination, and
should be economical as well.U.S. Patent No. 5,116,290 discloses a container of the
generic type used for this purpose and a blank structure
for forming same. This prior art container comprises rigid
end panels about which a flexible cover sheet is wrapped in
order to form the bottom, side and top panels. The end
panels include stacking projections on their upper or lower
edges and stacking recesses on their opposite edge. When
the containers are stacked, the projections from one
container fit into the recesses of the next higher or lower
container in an attempt to stabilize the stack. The
flexible sheet is provided with slots for receiving the
stacking projections and for receiving the corners of the
end panels. In order to hold the end edges of the flexible
sheet in place, the end panels are provided with angled
slots into which the folded end edges of the sheet fit.
Alternatively, in the embodiment in which the stacking
projections extend upwardly, the edges of the sheet are
held in place by a shoulder on the stacking projection
which engages the end of the associated slot in the sheet.Although the above appreciated container includes
certain desirable design features, it has been found to be
lacking in some respects. Stacks of containers may at times
be subjected to lateral loads which can be severe enough to 
cause the stacks to tip over despite the resistance of the
stacking projections.The main object of this invention is to provide a
container which makes use of the basic design concept
described above, but improves the container in the area
discussed. Particularly, the present invention aims to
improve stability of a stack of containers of the generic
type to withstand lateral loads.This object is achieved by incorporating the
characterizing features of claim 1 into a container of the
generic
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A container (10), comprising:

two spaced, substantially parallel, relatively rigid
end panels (14);
each end panel (14) having upper (16) and lower (18)
edges, side edges (20) and upper and lower corner areas;
top (50), bottom (38) and side (42, 44, 46) panels
extending between the end panels;
each end panel (14) including a plurality of
stacking projections (22) extending from either the upper

(16) or lower (18) edge thereof and a plurality of
recesses (26) in the upper or lower edge opposite the

projections (22) for receiving the stacking projections
of a similar adjacent stacked container;
the top (50), bottom (38), and side (42, 44, 46)
panels comprising portions of a relatively
 flexible sheet
(12) folded about the end panels (14), the sheet also

including
slots (54) through which the stacking projections extend and

slots (60) opposite the recesses (26) for
receiving the stacking projections (22) of a similar

adjacent stacked container;
the top panel (50) including the end portions of the
sheet; and
means for holding the end portions of the sheet in
place; characterized in that
each end panel (14) further includes shoulders (28)
in the upper corner areas and feet (32) in the lower

corner areas, the feet (32) and shoulders (28) having
aligned support surfaces (30) such that the support

surfaces of the feet (32) of a container contact the
support surfaces (30) of the shoulders (28) of a similar

adjacent stacked container, the sheet (12) also including
slots (56, 58) through which the

shoulders (28) and the feet (32) extend.
A container according to claim 1, wherein the
support surfaces of the feet (32) and shoulders (28) are

substantially horizontal when the container is in stacked
condition. 
A container according to claim 1, wherein the
side panels include upper (46) and lower (42) sloped

portions connected to the top (50) and bottom (38)
panels, respectively.
A container according to claim 3, wherein the
shoulders (28) and feet (32) extend through slots (56,

58) in the sloped (42, 46) portions of the side panels.
A container according to claim 1, wherein the
stacking projections (22) extend up from the upper edges

of the end panels, and the recesses (26) are in the lower
edges thereof.
A container according to claim 5, wherein the
stacking projections (22) extend up from the upper edges

of the end panels a greater distance than the support
surfaces (30) of the shoulders (28).
A container according to claim 1, wherein the
means for holding at least one of the end portions of the

sheet in place is comprised of an outwardly tapered
surface (36) extending upwardly from the upper edge (16)

of the end panels (14) a greater distance than the
thickness of the top panel, the end of said one end

portion of the sheet (12) engaging the tapered surface
(36).
A container according to claim 7, including a
second outwardly tapered surface (36) facing in the

opposite direction of the first mentioned tapered
surface, the end of the other end portion of the sheet

engaging the second tapered surface and being spaced from
the end of said one end portion of the sheet.
A container according to claim 7, wherein the
outwardly tapered surface is spaced from the upper edge

of said one end panel a distance no greater than the
distance that the support surfaces of the shoulders are

spaced from said upper edge.
A container according to claim 7, wherein the
means for holding the other end portion of the flexible

sheet in place is comprised of at least one locking tab
(72) extending from said other end portion through a 

locking slot (74) in the sheet, said other end portion of
the sheet overlapping said one end portion.
A container according to claim 10, wherein the
locking slot (74) is located at substantially the

juncture of the top (50) and side (46) panels.
A container according to claim 7, including
second outwardly tapered surfaces (36) facing in the

opposite direction of the first mentioned tapered
surface, the other end portion of the sheet including

edges engaging the second tapered surfaces and being
spaced from the end of said one end portion of the sheet,

a lid (82) hingedly connected to the other end portion of
the sheet, the lid having at least one locking tab (72')

extending through a slot (74') in said one end portion of
said sheet.
A container according to claim 12, wherein the
edges of the other end portion of the sheet engaging the

second tapered surfaces are formed by portions of slits
(76, 80) in the other end portion of the sheet, the slits

extending in to the hinged connection (78) of the lid
(82).
A container according to claim 1, wherein the
top (50), bottom (38) and side (42, 44, 46) panels of the

container include at least one transversely extending
weakened area (64) permitting the container to be

separated into a plurality of smaller container units,
the container including intermediate panels (66) similar

in size and shape to the end panels (14) located on
either side of the weakened area (64), and the top,

bottom and side panels including slots for receiving the
stacking projections, shoulders and feet of the

intermediate panels.
A container according to claim 1, wherein the
bottom panel (38) includes flaps (84) adhered to the end

panels (14).
A blank structure for forming a container
(10), comprising:


a substantially rectangular flexible sheet (12) 
having opposite ends and edge portions and a central

section (38) adapted to be the bottom panel of a
container formed from the blank structure;
flaps (84) connected to the edge portions of the
central section (38) of the sheet, each flap (84) being

adhered to a lower edge portion of a rigid end panel
(14);
each end panel (14) having upper (16) and lower (18)
edges, side edges (20) and upper and lower corner areas;
each end panel (14) including a plurality of
stacking projections (22) extending from either the upper

or lower edge thereof and a plurality of recesses (26) in
the upper or lower edge opposite the projections for

receiving the stacking projections of a similar adjacent
stacked container;
the flexible sheet (12) adapted to be folded about
the edges of the end panels, the sheet containing slots

(54) in the edge portions thereof through which the
stacking projections (22) and the upper and lower corner

areas of the end panels extend in a container formed from
the blank structure, the sheet also including slots (60)

adapted to be opposite the recesses in the end panels of
a container for receiving the stacking projections (22)

of a similar adjacent stacked container; and
means adapted to hold opposite end edges of the
sheet in place in a container formed from the blank

structure; characterized in that
each end panel (14) further includes shoulders (28)
in the upper corner areas and feet (32) in the lower

corner areas, the feet (32) and shoulders (28) having
aligned support surfaces in a container formed from the

blank structure such that the support surfaces of the
feet (32) of a container formed from the blank structure

contact the support surfaces of the shoulders (28) of a
similar adjacent, stacked container, and the flexible

sheet (12) also includes slots (56, 58) through which
the shoulder (28) and the feet

(32) extend in a container formed from the blank 
structure.
A blank structure according to claim 16,
wherein each end panel (14) includes an outwardly tapered

locking surface (36) extending upwardly from the upper
edge thereof, at least one end of the flexible sheet (12)

adapted to engage the tapered surface to be held in place
thereby.
A blank structure according to claim 17,
wherein both ends of the sheet are adapted to engage

opposite tapered surfaces (36) on the end panels.
A blank structure according to claim 17,
wh
erein one end of the sheet is adapted to engage the
tapered surface (36) and edges spaced from the other end

of the sheet are adapted to engage opposite tapered
surfaces on the end panels to lock the flexible sheet in

place.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
