<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653142</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SWITCH ARCHITECTURE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B1002	H04L1256	H04Q1100	H04Q300	H04L1256	H04Q352	H04Q1104	H04Q300	H04Q1100	H04B1002	H04Q1104	H04Q352	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04L	H04Q	H04Q	H04L	H04Q	H04Q	H04Q	H04Q	H04B	H04Q	H04Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B10	H04L12	H04Q11	H04Q3	H04L12	H04Q3	H04Q11	H04Q3	H04Q11	H04B10	H04Q11	H04Q3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Telecommunications switch architectures and switching methods based on the principle of replication/broadcasting some or all of the incoming data from each input switch port to all output switch ports. The replicated data is transferred to the output ports either by the respective output port reading directly from a relevant address in an input memory, or by transferring the content of all or part of the input memory data simultaneously en bloc and in parallel to a plurality of output memories, with each output port then taking the data intended therefor. The input and output data is in serial form but transferred in parallel form. The data can be replicated optically (Fig. 8) or electronically (Fig. 12). In particular, the input data can be formatted as spatially arranged pages in the optical domain by spatial light modulators (SLM) and switched by an image replicating optical switch, such as a matrix-matrix switch, to an output plane at which a second SLM device converts the data back to serial form. The SLM's may be based on FELC/VLSI technology. A mixture of ATM and STM data can be switched in a single arrangement (Fig. 8).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to telecommunications switch architecture, 
and in particular but not exclusively to architectures for use in multi-service 
environments rather than just the conventional voice traffic 
as in a PSTN (Public Switched Telephone Network) Speech and data signals are more and more being transmitted 
optically rather than electrically, however switching is performed in 
the electrical mode. Optical switching has been suggested 
particularly in order to obviate the need for opto-electronic 
interfaces which add to the system complexity and cost. However, 
the relatively low operating speed of currently available optical 
switch elements places a severe restriction on the system bit rate. 
The present invention is concerned with a switching architecture 
that can be embodied in both optical and electronic form For the circuit switching of digital channels TST (Time-Space-Time) 
or STS (Space-Time-Space), for example, are used in 64 kbit/s 
networks. These types of switching can be made to be non-blocking 
or to have a low blocking probability but are characterised 
by: 
(1) fixed length data, i.e. 8 bits, (2) fixed bandwidth per channel, (3) no contention for output channels. Clearly with these basic structures there are a number of problems 
with handling packets. In a multi-service SDH (Synchronous Digital Hierarchy) there can 
be a mixture of 8 bit information in Synchronous Transfer Mode 
(STM) and packets in Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM). With 
packets there is contention for channels because packets for a 
given output channel can arrive simultaneously on a number of 
input channels and temporarily overload that output channel. Thus 
internal queues are required and if these queues overload then 
traffic can be lost. With all known designs there is a finite 
probability that this will happen. In an SDH multiplex, ATM cells and their headers are, once the 
frame overhead is removed, contiguous bits in the bit stream, 
whereas STM information at, say the 2Mbit/s level is distributed 
throughout the frame. This means that incoming ATM information 
can be switched on the fly but a frame store is necessary before 
STM information can be switched. In the past these conflicting requirements have resulted in switch 
designs that either deal with ATM switching in isolation or, if not, the 
circuit packet switching are segregated into separate modules. For 
example, in the RACE context (R&D in Advanced Communication 
Technologies in Europe), the RACE BLNT design ATM only (A.L. 
Fox et al
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A switching architecture, including a plurality of incoming links 
(10) and a plurality of outgoing links (17), for switching data between the 

incoming and outgoing links, which data is in serial form on said incoming 
links, one or more input memory blocks in which said data is stored at 

specific addresses; means (21) for replicating the data whereby all 
incoming data are available for all or selected outgoing links, said storing 

and replicating means being interconnected whereby the storage occurs 
before the replication or concurrently therewith and the replication occurs 

when the data is in serial or parallel form; means (13) for each 
replication, for transferring data from one of said memory blocks to the 

appropriate one of said outgoing links, which transfer means is either 
such as to read directly from the relevant address in said input memory 

blocks (11), and means for each outgoing link for taking the incoming 
data intended therefor and reading that data out in serial form,
 
characterised in that means (11) are provided for converting said serial 

data into parallel form and comprise, for each incoming link, address 

decode and memory write means; 

that the transfer means is further adapted to transfer the content of all or 
part of said input memory blocks simultaneously en bloc and in parallel to 

a plurality of output memory blocks (14), each associated with a 
respective outgoing link; 
that there is a respective source memory for each incoming link, the 
decoded address information being stored in a respective area of the 

source memory, each of which source memories comprises a said input 
memory block; 
that means (18) are provided to convert the source memory content to 
optical form; 
that the replicating means (21) comprises optical replicating means for 
acting on said optical form of the source memory content, there being a 

respective destination memory for each said outgoing link, each of which 
destination memories comprises a said output memory block, a 

respective read-out means being connected to each said destination 
memory, each outgoing link being connected to a respective read-out 

means and the read-out means serving only to read out the memory 
content intended for that outgoing link as determined from said stored 

address means;  
 
and that central or distributed control means are provided for controlling 
the operation of the address decode and memory link means, the source 

memories, the destination memories and the read-out means. 
An architecture as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the 
means (11) for converting said serial data into parallel form and said 

memory blocks are together such that input data is arranged in a first 
spatially arranged page plane, and that the data arranged in said first 

plane is replicated optically to said outgoing links. 
An architecture as claimed in claim 2, characterised in that the 
replicating means (21) comprises holographic fan-out optics. 
An architecture as claimed in claim 3, further including a shutter 
plane (22) disposed between the incoming and outgoing links and 

serving to cause transfer of said part of the content of the first spatially 
arranged page plane to the outgoing output links. 
An architecture as claimed in claim 4, further including fan-in 
optics (23) disposed between the shutter plane and the outgoing links. 
An architecture as claimed in claim 4, further including a second 
spatially arranged page plane (14) disposed in front of said outgoing links 

and comprising said output memory blocks. 
An architecture as claimed in claim 3, characterised in that the 
holographic fan-out optics is comprised by a Fourier plane array 

generator. 
An architecture as claimed in claim 2, characterised in that the 
replicating means is comprised by either a matrix-vector multiplier or a 

matrix-matrix multiplier. 
An architecture as claimed in claim 2, wherein the first spatially 
arranged page plane is comprised by ferro-electric liquid crystal/very 

large scale integration (FELC/VLSI) on silicon technology.  
 
An architecture as claimed in claim 6, wherein the second 
spatially arranged page plane is comprised by FELC/VLSI on silicon 

technology which serves also to read the transferred data out in serial 
form. 
An architecture as claimed in claim 2, wherein said first spatially 
arranged plane comprises a page formatter plane including an input 

whereby incoming serial data is fed to a series of electronic logic units 
(33), each having a respective light modulating pad (35) to a 

corresponding state. 
An architecture as claimed in claim 11, including laser means 
(18) for reading the states of the light modulating pads of the first plane, 

the replicating means serving to replicate the read states of the light 
modulating pads and to transfer the information in parallel to said output 

memory blocks. 
An architecture as c!aimed in claim 11 wherein each logic unit 
includes more than one memory cell whereby to facilitate simultaneous 

read-in and read-out of data. 
An architecture as claimed in claim 13 wherein two memory cells 
which are written and read alternately are associated with each light 

modulating pad. 
An architecture as claimed in claim 1 characterised in that there is 
the same number of incoming links as there are input memory blocks but 

the links are not always connected to the same input memory block, the 
inputs on the incoming links being shuffled whereby to balance the 

overall input data traffic between the memory blocks. 
An architecture as claimed in claim 15, characterised in that the 
shuffle is such that the straight-through connections between links and 

memory blocks, which would pertain if there was no shuffle, are not 
permitted to occur.  

 
An architecture as claimed in claim 16, characterised in that each 
plane has optical transmitters and/or receivers whereby control 

information can be carried optically through the switching architecture. 
An architecture as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the 
data incoming on each link is applied to all memory blocks via a 

respective address decode, serial to parallel conversion and memory 
write means whereby storage and replication occurs concurrently, and 

that each memory block has a respective read-out unit coupled to a 
respective outgoing link and which serves to read directly from the 

relevant address in said input memory block the input data intended for 
the respective outgoing link. 
An architecture as claimed in claim 18, characterised in that there 
are the same number of incoming links as there are memory blocks but 

the links are not always connected to the same memory write means, the 
inputs on the incoming links being shuffled therebetween. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
