<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648682</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Single layer multi-part mailer assembly.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D2700	B65D2704	B65D2706	B65D2706	B65D2708	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D27	B65D27	B65D27	B65D27	B65D27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multi-part mailing assembly includes a single-layer form (1) of detachable 
parts related to each other. The assembly is combined with an envelope (2) 

that both exposes and secures the parts and other contents for specialized 
mail handling. Spaced horizontal and vertical tear lines (10,11,12) separate 

the form into multiple related parts. In addition, opposite marginal edges 
(75a,75b) are also perforated for continuous pin or sprocket feeding of the 

stock through printing equipment. Additional vertical tear lines (76a,76b) 
remove the margins after printing, and transverse tear lines (77a,77b) 

separate the forms from each other. The envelope (2) secures the parts after 
being detached from each other into position within compartments (61,62) of 

the envelope along with other inserted materials. Open or transparent areas 
(40,41) allow printed information on the appropriate portion of the related 

part to be seen from the outside of the envelope (2) after it is sealed for 
mailing. One or more of the printed parts may be removed from its place 

inside the sealed envelope without disturbing or exposing the balance of the 
inserted contents. 
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PETKOVSEK GLENN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PETKOVSEK, GLENN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETKOVSEK GLENN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETKOVSEK, GLENN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a multi-part mailer 
assembly. More particularly, this invention relates to 
a multi-part single-layer form suited for feeding through 
computer printers, in combination with an envelope which 
secures the parts in position for specialized postal 
processing and handling. A known procedure for specialized postal processing 
and handling has previously required printing or writing 
information on various separate slips of paper and 
attaching the slips by various means to the outside of 
an envelope. Such a procedure is commonly used in 
preparing certified, registered and/or insured mail. For example, in using forms supplied by the United 
States Postal Service for certified mail, it is necessary 
to separately address and complete a certified mailing 
receipt. In addition, both faces of the return receipt 
card, the envelope to be mailed, and the request for 
return receipt service on the face of the envelope is 
required to be addressed. Separately affixing by glue, 
an adhesive, tape or other means is required to attach 
a certified mail slip and the return receipt card to the 
outside of the addressed envelope. In U. S. Patent No. 4,682,793 to Walz, a multiple-part 
mailer form assembly is shown in which the 
addressing of the multiple forms required for certified 
mail or other specialized postal handling may be  
 
accomplished by continuously-fed impact-type printers. 
The parts are then separated from each other for affixing 
some parts to the outside of a standard window envelope 
which can be addressed by the insertion of one of the 
extra form layers. However, this type of multiple-layer continuous 
assembly cannot be addressed or overprinted in the non-impact 
printers that have recently come into common use, 
or on less-expensive impact-type printers which have no 
means to adjust for strength of impact or thickness of 
multiple-layer forms. Additionally, the address 
information printed on the intermediate or rear layers 
of such forms is often degraded or blurred to less 
readable condition by the necessity of printing through 
the above layers. This degradation renders unfeasible 
the use of a postal barcode on the lower layers of 
address inserts to be compatible with U. S. Postal 
Service sorting equipment that is now generally used. 
In addition, this degradation renders unfeasible the use 
of high-density barcodes in other formats for automated 
identification of the return receipt postal card when it 
is returned to the sender as proof of delivery to the 
ad
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A multi-part mailing assembly, said assembly 
comprising: 

   a form for printing information relating to mail 
handling, said form being a single-layer of a plurality 

of detachable parts; and 
   an envelope for securing and exposing appropriate 

portions of said information from said form in addition 
to other inserted materials, said envelope having a means 

for removing at least one of said plurality of detachable 
parts without disturbing the remainder of said plurality 

of detachable parts and/or said other inserted materials. 
The assembly of claim 1 wherein said form is 
printed on a single-layer. 
The assembly of claim 1 wherein said plurality 
of detachable parts are addressed or printed in original. 
The assembly of claim 1 wherein said envelope 
includes at least one transparent window for exposing 

said information from at least one of said detachable 
parts. 
The assembly of claim 1 wherein one of said 
plurality of detachable parts includes a return card. 
The assembly of claim 1 wherein said envelope 
further comprises a plurality of compartments wherein 

each compartment secures at least one of said detachable 
parts. 
The assembly of claim 6 wherein one of said 
plurality of compartments may be formed by a separate 

patch adhered within said envelope. 
The assembly of claim 6 wherein said means for 
removing includes at least one perforated portion for 

access to at least one of said plurality of compartments. 
The assembly of claim 1 wherein said plurality 
of detachable parts includes parts specifically related 

to certified mail components. 
The assembly of claim 7 wherein said envelope 
comprises a single sealing flap to seal said plurality 

of compartments. 
The assembly of claim 10 wherein said sealing 
flap includes a notch for accessing at least one of said 

plurality of compartments. 
The assembly of claim 6 wherein said detachable 
parts in said compartments are only visible through 

respective windows of said compartments. 
A method for forming a multi-part mailing 
assembly, said method comprising the following steps: 

   providing a single-layer form of a plurality of 
detachable parts; 

   printing information on said form related to mail 
handling; 

   separating said plurality of detachable parts; and 
   providing an envelope having a plurality of 

compartments for securing said plurality of detachable 
parts and exposing said plurality of detachable parts 

through at least one window integrally formed in each of 
said plurality of compartments. 
The method of claim 13 wherein said printing 
step prints information on said form in a single pass. 
The method of claim 13 wherein said form may 
be continuously printed resulting in a plurality of forms 

having a plurality of detachable parts, said plurality 
of forms being separable from each other. 
The method of claim 13 wherein one of said 
detachable parts may be continuously printed. 
The method of claim 13 wherein one of said 
detachable parts may be multiply printed on a single 

sheet in a single pass. 
A form for printing or addressing information 
relating to mail handling, said form comprising: 

   a plurality of detachable parts, said parts printed 
in a single pass on a single-layer, wherein said 

plurality of detachable parts are separable from each 
other by perforated tear lines; and 

   an identifier on each of said plurality of 
detachable parts, said identifier uniquely relating to 

each of said plurality of parts for identifying said 
assembly. 
The form of claim 18 wherein said plurality of 
detachable parts comply with postal regulations for 

certified, registered or insured mail. 
The form of claim 18 wherein said identifier 
is a barcode. 
The form of claim 18 wherein said parts are 
printed on an impact or non-impact printer. 
The form of claim 20 wherein said barcode 

allows for automated entry of return receipt information 
by scanning of said barcode and automated printing of a 

return address on a return receipt card. 
An envelope having a front side and a back side 
for receiving a plurality of separable parts for mail 

handling, said envelope comprising: 
   a plurality of compartments formed within said front 

side and said back side wherein each of said plurality 
of compartments has at least one window integrally 

related thereto; 
   a sealing flap for enclosing contents of said 

 
plurality of compartments, said contents at least 

including said plurality of separable parts; and 
   at least one perforated tear line for removing at 

least one of said plurality of separable parts without 
disturbing the remainder of said contents. 
The envelope of claim 21 wherein one of said 
windows is exposed to said front side of said envelope 

and another of said windows is exposed to said back side. 
The envelope of claim 22 wherein each of said 
windows are positioned in register with defined printing 

areas of said separable parts. 
A multi-part mailing assembly, said assembly 
comprising: 

   a sheet having a plurality of detachable parts, said 
sheet having tear lines between said plurality of 

detachable parts; 
   said plurality of detachable parts each having an 

identifier related to the assembly wherein a first 
detachable part includes a mailing address and a second 

detachable part includes a return address; 
   an envelope having a plurality of compartments, each 

of said plurality of compartments having at least one 
window and securing at least one of said plurality of 

detachable parts therein, said mailing address in 
register with said at least one window of a first 

compartment and said return address in register with said 
at least one window of a second compartment; 

   said second detachable part being removable through 
perforated tear lines opening a portion of said second 

compartment, said second compartment being inaccessible 
to any other of said plurality of compartments; and 

   a sealing flap for containing said plurality of 
 

detachable parts within said plurality of compartments 
of said envelope. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
