<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652643</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus and method for trellis decoder.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03M1300	H03M1341	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03M	H03M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03M13	H03M13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A digital data processing apparatus capable of 
reducing a circuit scale without deteriorating error-correcting 

capability, and capable of reducing the bit 
number of a branch metric calculating circuit. The 

apparatus includes: a region determining portion (13) which 
determines an optimal bit number corresponding to the 

number of representative symbol groups; a delaying portion 
which delays an output from the region determining portion (15) 

for as long as a coded bit is decoded by a Viterbi decoding 
portion (11); and a decoding portion (17) which inputs and decodes an 

output from the delaying portion and a coded bit that is 
decoded by the Viterbi decoding portion so as to be 

decoded, and which outputs the uncoded bit. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOKYO SHIBAURA ELECTRIC CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KABUSHIKI KAISHA TOSHIBA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OKITA SHIGERU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OKITA, SHIGERU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an uncoded bit 
decoding circuit and a branch metric processing circuit in 
a trellis decoding circuit which decodes trellis-coded 
modulated information symbols. A coded modulation technique is to improve 
transmission characteristics by optimally signal-arranging 
coded bit(s) and uncoded bit(s). In the coded bit, the inter-signal distance can be 
easily provided by error correcting coding such as a block 
coding and convolutional coding. Therefore, among symbols 
which are located comparatively in close distance on 
constellation, the coded bits therefor may differ from 
other. On the other hand, as for the uncoded bits, they do 
not contain any effect intrinsic to the coding, so that the 
distance therebetween is determined on the constellation 
alone. A basic job of signal arrangement in the coded 
modulation scheme is to maximize a distance for symbols 
(subset symbols) whose coding bit are the same. In other 
words, by maximizing the distance, the distance between the 
codes can be also expanded in an equivalent manner, so that 
a transmission mode whose transmission characteristic is 
preferable can be realized. In the above-described coded modulation mode,  
 
presupposed is a multiple-valuedness of the modulation. On 
the other hand, in order to prevent a transmission band 
from expanding due to the coding operation, a modulation 
level need be increased, so that the transmission 
characteristic for the uncoded may be deteriorated. 
However, the improvement degree achieved by the above-described 
coding offsets and outweighs the deterioration of 
the transmission characteristic, thus generating a coding 
gain. Therefore, in the coded modulation mode, the coding 
gain can be comparatively easily obtained under band-limited 
channels, even in a case of utilizing the multiple-value 
modulation. When a convolutional coding is used for the coding, it 
is generally called a trellis-coded modulation or TCM. FIG. 21 shows a general construction for a trellis 
encoder. Referring to FIG. 21, information symbols (k+m) 
is divided to uncoded bit (k bit) and m bit which is fed to 
a convolutional coding unit 101, and the thus fed m bit is 
expanded to coded bit n, so that modulation symbols (k+n) 
are modulated and output therefrom. The feature of trellis coded modulation proposed by G. 
Ungerboeck lies in that, referring to FIG. 1, how 
effectively the coded and uncoded bits are allocated to 
modulation symbols. The publication concerning G. 
Ungerboeck is, for example,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A digital data processing apparatus in which a 
predetermined bit number of a portion of information 

symbols constituted by a plurality of bits in a 
transmitting side, is convolutional-coded so as to produce 

a coded bit, whereas the bit number of remaining portion 
thereof is uncoded bit, combination of the coded bit and 

the uncoded bit is trellis-coded, and the trellis-coded 
bit is decoded in a receiving side, so that the uncoded 

bit is decoded utilizing the coded bit that is decoded in a 
convolutional decoding portion, the apparatus comprising: 

   region determining means (13) for inputting a received 
symbol so as to generate an uncoded bit and producing 

regional information corresponded to a group of symbols 
specified by the received symbol; 

   delaying means (15) for delaying the regional 
information output from the region determining means for as 

long as the received symbol is maximum-likelihood-decoded 
by a maximum-likelihood decoding means (11); and 

   decoding means (17) for inputting output from the 
delaying means and a coded bit that is decoded by the 

maximum-likelihood decoding means (11) so as to be decoded, 
and for outputting the uncoded bit. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein a T-stage shift 
register (15) serves as the delaying means. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the region determining 
means (13) includes : limiter means for limiting amplitude 

on the received symbol so as to obtain regional 
information. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the region determining 
means (13) includes means for determining an optimal bit 

number in such a manner that the bit number is a minimum 
 

bit number while not less than log₂J where J indicates the 
number of groups for the symbols specified by the received 

symbols. 
The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the region determining 
means (13) further includes: means for determining an 

optimal bit number in such a manner that the bit number is 
a minimum bit number while not less than log₂J where J 

indicates the number of groups for the symbols specified by 
the received symbols. 
An uncoded bit decoding device in which a predetermined 
bit number of a portion of information symbols constituted 

by a plurality of bits in a transmitting side, is 
Viterbi-coded so as to produce a coded bit, whereas the bit 

number of remaining portion thereof is uncoded bit, 
combination of the coded bit and the uncoded bit is 

trellis-coded, and the trellis-coded bit is decoded in a 
receiving side, so that the uncoded bit is decoded 

utilizing the coded bit that is decoded in a Viterbi 
decoding portion, the device comprising: 

   region determining means (13) for determining an 
optimal bit number corresponding to the number of 

representative symbol groups; and 
   delaying means (15) for delaying an output from the 

region determining means for as long as the coded bit is 
decoded by the Viterbi decoding portion; and 

   decoding means (17) for inputting and decoding an 
output from the delaying means and a coded bit that is 

decoded by the Viterbi decoding means so as to be decoded, 
and for outputting the uncoded bit. 
The apparatus of claim 6, wherein a T-stage shift 
register (15) serves as the delaying means. 
The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the region determining 
 

means (13) includes : limiter means for limiting amplitude 
on the received symbol so that the received symbol is moved 

within a predetermined region in the event that the 
received symbol lies outside the predetermined region.. 
The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the region determining 
means (13) includes means for determining an optimal bit 

number in such a manner that the bit number is a minimum 
bit number while not less than log₂J where J indicates the 

number of groups for the symbols specified by the received 
symbols. 
The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the region 
determining means (13) further includes: means for 

determining an optimal bit number in such a manner that 
the bit number is a minimum bit number while not less than 

log₂J where J indicates the number of groups for the 
symbols specified by the received symbols. 
A branch metric processing apparatus where a 
predetermined bit number of a portion of information 

symbols constituted by a plurality of bits in a 
transmitting side, is convolutional-coded so as to produce 

a coded bit, whereas the bit number of remaining portion 
thereof is uncoded bit, combination of the coded bit and 

the uncoded bit is trellis-coded, and the trellis-coded 
bit is decoded in a receiving side, so that the uncoded 

bit is decoded in accordance with a received symbol 
obtained after soft-decision, utilizing the coded bit that 

is decoded in a Viterbi decoding portion, the apparatus 
comprising: 

   limiter (11) means for performing an amplitude 
limitation on the received symbol obtained by the soft-decision; 

   distance calculating (13) means for producing a branch 
metric in a Viterbi decoding, by calculating square of 

 
Euclidean distance on data obtained from the limiter means. 
The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising: 
   nonlinear processing means (15), connected to the 

distance calculating means, for performing a nonlinear 
processing in the event that an output value of the 

distance calculating means is greater than a predetermined 
value, so that the output value is limited to within the 

predetermined value. 
The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising: 
   bit truncating means (17), connected to the distance 

calculating means, for truncating the bit of an output 
value from the distance calculating means. 
The apparatus of claim 12, further comprising: 
   bit truncating means (17), connected to the nonlinear 

processing means, for truncating the bit of an output value 
from the nonlinear processing means. 
The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising: 
   nonlinear processing means (15), connected to the bit 

truncating means, for performing a nonlinear processing in 
the event that an output value of the bit truncating means 

is greater than a predetermined value, so that the output 
value is limited to within the predetermined value. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
