<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646773</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Navigation aid including map transparency holder
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01C2120	G01C2120	G01C1700	G01C1704	G01C2104	G02B2702	G01C2104	G09B2910	G01C	G02B2702	G09B2910	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01C	G01C	G01C	G01C	G01C	G02B	G01C	G09B	G01C	G02B	G09B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01C21	G01C21	G01C17	G01C17	G01C21	G02B27	G01C21	G09B29	G01C	G02B27	G09B29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A navigation device is disclosed, having a lens (6) across an opening at one end of 
a case (2, 12), and a compass (14) across an opening at the opposite end of the case. A 

transparency holder (8) is positioned between the lens and the compass, adapted to receive 
a map transparency (10) with magnetic north thereon aligning with a North marking 

(19) on the case or on the body of the compass, at a distance from the lens approximating 
the focal length of the lens. A grid wheel (22) is provided between the transparency holder 

and the compass, having a transparent or translucent central area inscribed with parallel 
grid lines (34) and at least one first directional arrow (36) aligned parallel to the grid lines, 

the grid wheel being in close proximity to the transparency holder such that it is also at a 
distance from the lens approximating the focal length of the lens. Positioned between the 

grid wheel and the compass, and geared to the grid wheel for counter-rotation therewith, 
is a direction wheel (24) having a transparent or translucent central area inscribed with at 

least one second directional arrow (40). The transparency holder has asymmetric features, 
such as off-centre notches (88) which engage complementary features (86) in the navigation 

device. In the preferred embodiment, the transparency holder has integral upper and 
lower halves (90, 91) hinged together by a living hinge (92) and sandwiching the map 

transparency therebetween. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to navigation 
aids and devices, and particularly to a device for 
converting map bearings to provide an indication of the 
true land or sea bearing, the device including a holder 
for a map transparency. In reading a map and navigating with a compass, 
amateur or occasional navigators frequently fail to 
properly account for magnetic declination, either by 
neglecting it entirely, or by taking it in the wrong 
direction, thus producing an error of twice the magnetic 
declination. More seriously, amateur or occasional 
navigators may align the compass needle incorrectly or 
misinterpret the reading or make other similar errors to 
produce a 180 degree error. There is a need for a navigation device which 
facilitates relatively foolproof conversion of map data 
into a land or sea bearing to be taken. Some prior art devices have used map 
transparencies mounted in a frame with a lens and 
rotatable grid, to facilitate obtaining a map bearing. 
For example, see United States patent no. 3,094,781 
(Vangor, 1963). However, such devices generally accomplish no 
more than can be accomplished using a protractor on a 
laid-out paper map, i.e. they merely provide a map 
bearing. There remains the problem of using a compass to 
convert the map bearing to the true land or sea bearing.  
 It is thus an object of the invention to 
provide a navigation device which facilitates relatively 
foolproof conversion of map data into a land or sea 
bearing to be taken. It is a further object of the invention to 
provide, for the navigation device, a transparency holder 
which is adapted to permit the insertion of a map 
transparency in one orientation only. In the invention, a map transparency, a grid 
wheel, a counter-rotating direction wheel and a compass 
are combined in such a fashion such that map information 
can be directly converted to a land or sea bearing in 
virtually foolproof fashion. More particularly, the invention involves, 
mounted in a case parallel to and aligned with each 
other, a lens across an opening at one end of the case 
and a compass, having a body, transparent faces and a 
magnetic compass needle, across an opening at the 
opposite end of the case. A transparency holder is 
positioned between the lens and the compass at a distance 
from the lens approximating the focal length of the lens, 
and is adapted to receive a map transparency with 
magnetic north thereon aligning with a North marking on 
the case or on the body of the compass. A grid wheel is 
provided
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A transparency holder for use in a navigation device adapted to receive said 
transparency holder carrying a map transparency, where said 

map transparency must be correctly oriented in the navigation 
device, comprising alignment 

means (70, 71, 88) for engaging complementary means (72,73,86) 
mounted on said device, said alignment means being 

asymmetrical about any axis of symmetry of said transparency 
holder, whereby said alignment means and said complementary 

means permit installation of said transparency holder in said 
device in only one possible orientation. 
A transparency holder as recited in claim 1, in 
which said alignment means comprises at least one notch 

(70,71,88) provided in said transparency holder, for engaging 
complementary means (72,73,86) in said navigation device. 
A transparency holder as recited in claim 1, in 
which said transparency holder comprises transparent upper and 

lower halves (90,91) fastenable to each other to sandwich said 
map transparency therebetween. 
A transparency holder as recited in claim 3, in 
which said upper and lower halves are integral and connected 

to each other by a living hinge (92). 
A transparency holder as recited in claim 3, in 
which at least one of the said upper and lower halves has a 

recessed area (96), the total depth of said recessed area(s) 
corresponding to the thickness of a map transparency.  

 
The transparency holder as recited in claim 4, in 
which at least one of said upper and lower halves has a 

recessed area (96), the total depth of said recessed area(s) 
corresponding to the thickness of a map transparency. 
The transparency holder of claim 2, in which said 
complementary means comprises a tee (86) projecting upwardly 

from a transparent transparency support (80) positioned within 
said device, said tee being positioned off the centre line of 

said transparency means and said complementary means permit 
installation of said transparency holder in said device in 

only one possible orientation. 
A map transparency holder for insertion in a 
navigational device of the type which required that the map 

transparency be correctly oriented in the navigational device, 
the map transparency holder having asymmetric alignment means 

that are positioned to engage complementary asymmetric 
alignment means on the navigational device as a precondition 

to insertion of the map transparency in the correct 
orientation and to prevent installation of the transparency 

holder in the navigational device until the asymmetric 
alignment means and the complementary asymmetric alignment 

means are complementarily engaged.  
 
A map transparency holder for insertion in a 
navigational device of the type wherein the map transparency 

must be correctly oriented in the navigational device, the 
transparency holder having an asymmetric configuration that 

complimentarily engages a support means on said navigational 
device and prevents installation of the transparency holder in 

said device when there is misalignment of the asymmetric 
transparency holder and the complementary asymmetric support. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
