<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657182</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for dispensing respiratory gases.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M1600	A61M1600	A61M1606	A61M1606	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M16	A61M16	A61M16	A61M16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a respiratory gas dispensing apparatus 
for delivering a precise volume of respiratory gas to a patient within 

less than about half of an inspiratory effort comprising a source (10) 
of respiratory gas in operative communication with a valve means (30) 

capable of releasing a pulsed dose of respiratory gas in 
synchronization with the initiation of the inspiratory effort wherein 

the volume of the pulsed dose is constant throughout an entire pulse 
period. The invention further relates to a method of using the subject 

apparatus, and to the valve means contained in the subject apparatus. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INVACARE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INVACARE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ENTERLINE JACK J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ENTERLINE, JACK J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention pertains to a respiratory apparatus 
which features a means for selecting either continuous gas flow 
mode and pulsed gas flow mode, and further for controlling the 
volume of gas received by the patient while maintaining constant 
pressure and constant time. The apparatus also includes a fail-safe 
device which detects the loss of inspiratory effort and 
automatically initiates continuous gas flow at a variable flow 
rate. The invention further relates to methods for operating and 
using the same. Oxygen therapy and assisted breathing devices have 
improved over the last several years. Common respiratory devices 
have been based on the delivery to the patient or user of a 
continuous flow of respiratory gas, most often oxygen, by 
transferring gas from a supply tank or supply line to a mask or 
cannula which is placed over the patient's mouth and nose. The 
volume of oxygen supplied to the patient by these devices is 
generally controlled by a flow regulator or meter. These continuous flow devices, however, have been 
determined to be less than completely efficient in light of 
recent research regarding the amount of respiratory gas actually 
used by the patient. Newer respiratory gas delivery devices reflect these 
research findings by providing oxygen or other respiratory gases 
to the patient as a dosed pulse of gas. Pulse Dose on Demand oxygen delivery technology 
provides an arterial hemoglobin oxygen saturation as measured by 
pulse oximetry (Sp02) or arterial blood gas analysis equivalent 
to that provided by traditional continuous flow oxygen. In Pulse 
Dose oxygen therapy, the pulse of oxygen is delivered in the 
first one-third of the inspiratory effort and reaches the alveoli 
providing alveolar ventilation and permitting respiration or gas 
exchange in the lungs. Then the balance of the inspiratory 
volume fills the anatomical deadspace and is exhaled, not 
participating in the gas exchange. As an oxygen conserving  
 
device the unit is designed to take advantage of the fact that 
oxygen is needed only during the initial phase of inspiration. The normal (at rest) breathing pattern allows for 
inhaling and exhaling in appropriate intervals. Continuous 
systems waste 2/3 of the oxygen they release since oxygen is 
supplied whether the user is inhaling or not. Pulse-dose oxygen 
devices sense the initiation of the user's inhalation (negative 
pressure) and instantly releases a short, programmed "pulse" dose 
at a relatively high flow rate at the leading edge of the 
inhalation
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for delivering a precise dose of respiratory 
gas upon initiation of an inspiratory effort and within less than 

half of the inspiratory effort comprising: 
   sensing a negative effort corresponding to the 

initiation of inspiration in a sensing means; 
   converting the sensed negative effort to an 

electrical signal; 
   transmitting the electrical signal to a solenoid 

valve positioned to control a flow of respiratory gas; 
   opening the solenoid valve in response to receipt 

of the electrical signal for an amount of time equal to less than 
half of the duration of the inspiratory effort; and 

   delivering the dose of respiratory gas to the 
patient, while the solenoid valve is open, at the desired volume 

and at a constant flow rate. 
The method for delivering a precise dose of respiratory 
gas according to claim 1 wherein the solenoid valve is open for 

400 milliseconds. 
The method for delivering a precise dose of respiratory 
gas according to claim 1 wherein the respiratory gas is oxygen. 
The method for delivering a precise dose of respiratory 
gas according to claim 1 wherein the desired volume of 

respiratory gas corresponds to only one setting of a series of 
settings ranging from a flow rate of about 0.50 LPM to a flow 

rate of about 35.0 LPM. 
A respiratory gas dispensing apparatus comprising: 
   a respiratory gas source for delivering 

respiratory gas; 
   a valve means for receiving the respiratory gas 

from the respiratory gas source, the valve means being operable 
in a continuous or a pulsed flow mode and having multiple 

 
apertures of varying sizes for precisely controlling flow volume 

of the respiratory gas; 
   a switch for selecting one of the continuous or 

pulse flow modes; and 
   an outlet for transmitting the respiratory gas to 

a patient at a selected flow volume. 
The respiratory gas dispensing apparatus of claim 5 
wherein the respiratory gas source is a portable tank containing 

the respiratory gas. 
The respiratory gas dispensing apparatus of claim 5 
wherein the valve means includes dual outlet ports, one being 

operable in the continuous flow mode, and one being operable in 
a pulsed flow mode. 
The respiratory gas dispensing apparatus of claim 7 
wherein the valve means includes a disc having two concentric 

rings of apertures of varying sizes, the apertures of one ring 
communicating air through the continuous flow mode outlet, and 

the apertures of the second ring communicating air through the 
pulsed flow mode outlet. 
The respiratory gas dispensing apparatus of claim 8 
wherein the disc is rotatable by a knob to bring only one 

aperture into open communication with each outlet port. 
The respiratory gas dispensing apparatus of claim 5 
wherein the switch is a manually operated switch. 
The respiratory gas dispensing apparatus of claim 5 
wherein the switch is an electrically operated switch. 
A respiratory gas dispensing apparatus for delivering 
a precise volume of respiratory gas to a patient within less than 

about half of an inspiratory effort comprising:
 

   a source of respiratory gas in operative 
communication with a valve means capable of releasing a pulsed 

dose of respiratory gas in synchronization with the initiation 
of the inspiratory effort wherein the volume of the pulsed dose 

is constant throughout an entire pulse period. 
The respiratory gas dispensing apparatus of claim 12 
wherein the source of respiratory gas is a 
portable tank. 
The respiratory gas dispensing apparatus according to 
claim 12 wherein the valve means is a dual outlet port valve 

having one outlet port which conducts gas flow in a continous 
manner, and one outlet port which conducts gas flow in a pulsed 

manner. 
The respiratory gas dispensing apparatus according to 
claim 14 wherein the valve means includes a disc having two 

concentric rings of apertures of varying sizes, the apertures of 
one ring communicating air through the continuous flow mode 

outlet, and the apertures of the second ring communicating air 
through the pulsed flow mode outlet. 
The respiratory gas dispensing apparatus according to 
claim 12 wherein the pulse period lasts for 400 milliseconds. 
The respiratory gas dispensing apparatus according to 
claim 12 wherein the precise volume of respiratory gas is 

selected from volumes ranging from about 0.50 LPM to about 35.0 
LPM. 
A valve apparatus for dispensing respiratory gas in a 
continuous flow mode or a pulse flow mode comprising: 

   an inlet port at one end of the valve for 
receiving the respiratory gas from a respiratory gas source; 

   a rotatable disc located above the inlet port and 
in open communication therewith the disc having concentric rings 

 
of multiple orifices of varying size which extend from the bottom 

surface of the disc through to the top surface of the disc; 
   a rotor in intimate contact with the top surface 

of the disc, the rotor having one aperture inscribed therein for 
receiving respiratory gas from one of the orifices in each 

concentric ring; 
   a knob, at the end of the valve opposite the inlet 

port, which when turned causes rotation of the rotatable disc 
with positive detenting; 

   and two outlet ports through which respiratory gas 
may exit the valve apparatus, each outlet port being in 

transmitting communication with only one aperture in the rotor, 
and one outlet port operating to transmit respiratory gas in the 

continuous flow mode and one outlet port operating to transmit 
respiratory gas in the pulsed flow mode. 
The valve apparatus of claim 18 wherein the rotatable 
disc has 24 orifices. 
The valve apparatus of claim 19 wherein the 24 orifices 
are arranged in two concentric rings of 12 orifices each. 
The valve apparatus of claim 20 wherein the inner 
concentric ring orifices vary in size to permit a flow rate of 

0.25 LPM to 6.0 LPM, and the outer concentric ring orifices vary 
in size to permit a flow rate of from 0.50 LPM to 35.0 LPM. 
A respiratory gas dispensing apparatus comprising: 
   a respiratory gas source; 

   a valve means for receiving respiratory gas from 
the respiratory gas source, the valve means having two outlet 

ports, one of which is connected to a first gas line, and another 
of which is connected to a second gas line; 

   the first gas line transmitting respiratory gas 
in a continuous manner to the patient; 

   the second gas line transmitting respiratory gas 
in a pulsed manner to the patient;

 
   a sensing means for sensing a negative effort 

caused by the initiation of an inspiration by the patient; 
   a printed circuit board for converting the sensed 

negative effort into an electrical signal, and transmitting the 
electrical signal to a solenoid valve; 

   the solenoid valve suitable for opening the second 
gas line for a predetermined period of time in response to 

receipt of the electrical signal; 
   a switch means for opening only one of the first 

gas line or the second gas line at a given time; 
   and an outlet line for receiving respiratory gas 

from the opened first gas line or second gas line, and 
transmitting the respiratory gas to the patient. 
The respiratory gas dispensing apparatus according to 
claim 22 wherein the respiratory gas source is a tank of liquid 

oxygen and the apparatus further includes a heat exchanger device 
for vaporizing the liquid oxygen to a gaseous state. 
The respiratory gas dispensing apparatus according to 
claim 22 wherein the pulse of respiratory gas, which is emitted 

from the second gas line, has a constant volume over the entire 
predetermined time period. 
The respiratory gas dispensing apparatus of claim 22 
wherein the apparatus further includes a solenoid valve 

positioned in the first gas line, powered by the printed circuit 
board, which is maintained in a closed position when the 

apparatus is transmitting respiratory gas through the second gas 
line, but which is opened upon failure of the printed circuit 

board creating the pulsed flow to allow an automatic continous 
flow of respiratory gas to the patient. 
The respiratory gas dispensing apparatus of claim 22 
wherein the printed circuit board includes an onboard computer. 
The respiratory gas dispensing apparatus of claim 22 
wherein the valve means includes a means for varying the volume 

of gas flow. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
