<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1042822</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PIEZOELECTRIC TRANSDUCER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B500	A61B500	A61B5053	A61B5053	G01F134	G01F136	G01F172	G01F172	H01L4109	H01L4109	H01L41113	H01L41113	H03H900	H03H917	H04R1700	H04R1700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	G01F	G01F	G01F	G01F	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H03H	H03H	H04R	H04R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	G01F1	G01F1	G01F1	G01F1	H01L41	H01L41	H01L41	H01L41	H03H9	H03H9	H04R17	H04R17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A miniature piezoelectric transducer element is provided, comprising: (a) a cell element having a cavity (3); (b) a flexible piezoelectric layer (2) attached to the cell member, the piezoelectric element layer (2) having an external surface and at internal surface, the piezoelectric layer featuring such dimensions so as to enable fluctuations thereof at its resonance frequency upon impinging of an external acoustic wave; and (c) a first electrode (8) attached to the external surface and a second electrode (6) attached to the internal surface of the piezoelectric layer. At least one of the electrodes may be specifically shaped so as to provide a maximal electrical output wherein the electrical output may be current, voltage or power. A preferred shape of the electrodes includes two cores interconnected by a connecting member. The transducer element may function as a transmitter. When used as a transmitter, the electrodes are electrically connected to an electrical circuit including a switching element for modulating the reflected acoustic wave by controllably changing the mechanical impedance of the piezoelectric layer according in the frequency of an electrical message signal arriving from an electronic member, such as a sensor. Third and fourth electrodes may be attached to the piezoelectric layer and the electrical circuit, such that the switching element alternately connects the electrodes in parallel and anti-parallel electrical connections so as to controllably change the mechanical impedance of the piezoelectric layer.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REMON MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIES LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REMON MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIES LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DORON EYAL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PORAT YARIV
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSALIAH YOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DORON, EYAL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PORAT, YARIV
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSALIAH, YOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PIEZOELECTRIC TRANSDUCERFIELD AND BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to an acoustic transducer and, in particular, to a miniature flexural piezoelectric transducer for receiving acoustic energy transmitted from a remote source and converting such energy into electrical power for activating an electronic circuit. Further, the present invention relates to a miniature flexural piezoelectric transmitter for transmitting acoustic information by modulating the reflection of an external impinging acoustic wave. The prior art provides various examples of piezoelectric transducers.Examples of such piezoelectric transducers are disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3,792,204; 4,793, 825; 3,894,198; 3,798,473, and 4,600,855.However, none of the prior art references provides a miniature flexural piezoelectric transducer specifically tailored so as to allow the usage of low frequency acoustic signals for vibrating the piezoelectric layer at its resonant frequency, wherein substantially low frequency signals herein refer to signals having a wavelength that is much larger than the dimensions of the transducer. Further, none of the prior art references provides a miniature transducer having electrodes specifically shaped so as to maximize the electrical output of the transducer. Further, none of the above references provides a transducer element which may be integrally manufactured with any combination of electronic circuits by using photolithographic and microelectronics technologies.Further, the prior art fails to provide a miniature flexural piezoelectric transmitter which modulates the reflected acoustic wave by controUably changing the mechanical impedance of the piezoelectric layer according to a message signal received from an electronic component such as a sensor. Further, the prior art fails to provide such transmitter wherein the piezoelectric layer is electrically connected to a switching element, the switching element for alternately changing the electrical connections of the transmitter so as to alternately change the mechanical impedance of the piezoelectric layer. Further, the prior art fails to provide such transducer wherein the mechanical impedance of the piezoelectric layer is controlled by providing a plurality of electrodes attached thereto, the electrodes being electrically interconnected in parallel and anti-parallel electrical connections. Further, the prior art fails to provide such transmitter wherein the piezoelectric layer features different polarities at distinct portions
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A transducer element, comprising:
(a) a cell member having a cavity;
(b) a substantially flexible piezoelectric layer attached to said cell member, said piezoelectric layer having an external surface and an internal surface, said piezoelectric layer featuring such dimensions so as to enable fluctuations thereof at its resonance frequency upon impinging of an external acoustic wave; and
(c) a first electrode attached to said external surface and a second electrode attached to said internal surface.
2. The transducer element of claim 1 , wherein said cavity is etched into a substrate.
3. The transducer element of claim 2, wherein said substrate includes an electrically insulating layer and an electrically conducting layer.
4. The transducer element of claim 3, wherein said first electrode is integrally made with a substantially thin electrically conducting layer disposed on said substrate.
5. The transducer of claim 4, wherein said substantially thin electrically conducting layer is connected to said substrate by means of a sealing connection.
6. The transducer element of claim 3, wherein said electrically insulating layer is made of silicon.
7. The transducer element of claim 3, wherein said electrically insulating layer is made of a polymeric material.
8. The transducer element of claim 5, wherein said sealing connection is made of indium.
9. The transducer element of claim 1 , wherein said piezoelectric layer is made of PVDF. 

10. The transducer element of claim 1, wherein said cavity is circular in cross section.
11. The transducer element of claim 1, wherein said cavity is hexagonal in cross section.
12. The transducer element of claim 2, wherein said substrate includes a plurality of cell members.
13. The transducer element of claim 1, wherein at least one of said first and second electrodes is specifically shaped so as to provide a maximal electrical output.
14. The transducer element of claim 13, wherein said electrical output is current.
15. The transducer element of claim 13, wherein said electrical output is voltage.
16. The transducer element of claim 13, wherein said electrical output is power.
17. The transducer element of claim 13, wherein at least one of said electrodes features first and second cores interconnected by a connecting member.
18. The transducer element of claim 1, wherein said cavity includes gas.
19. The transducer element of claim 18, wherein said gas is of substantially low pressure.
20. The transducer element of claim 19, wherein said transducer element is used as a transmitter. 

21. The transducer element of claim 19, further including a switching element electrically connected thereto so as to controUably change the mechanical impedance of said piezoelectric layer.
22. A transmitter element, comprising:
(a) a cell element having a cavity;
(b) a substantially flexible piezoelectric layer attached to said cell member, said piezoelectric layer having an external surface and an internal surface, said piezoelectric layer featuring such dimensions so as to enable fluctuations thereof at its resonance frequency upon impinging of an external acoustic wave; and
(c) a first electrode attached to said external surface and a second electrode attached to said internal surface, said electrodes being electrically connected to an electrical circuit including a switching element for controUably changing the mechanical impedance of said piezoelectric layer.
23. The transmitter element of claim 22, wherein the switching frequency of said switching element equals the frequency of an electrical message signal arriving from an electronic member.
24. The transducer element of claim 23, wherein said electronic member is a sensor.
25. The transducer element of claim 22, wherein said switching element is for modulating a reflected acoustic wave according to a message signal arriving from an electronic component.
26. The transducer element of claim 22, further including a third electrode attached so said external surface and a fourth electrode attached to said internal surface.
27. The transmitter element of claim 26, wherein said switching element alternately connects said electrodes in parallel and anti-parallel connections, thereby controUably changing the mechanical impedance of said piezoelectric layer. 

28. The transmitter element of claim 26, wherein said electrodes are electrically interconnected by means of a substantially built-in anti-parallel connection.
29. The transmitter element of claim 26, wherein said electrodes are electrically interconnected by means of a substantially built-in parallel connection.
30. The transmitter element of claim 26, wherein said switching element is an on/off switch.
31. The transmitter element of claim 26, wherein said piezoelectric layer includes first and second portions having opposite polarities.
32. The transmitter element of claim 22, wherein said transmitter element includes two cell members.
33. The transmitter element of claim 32, wherein said two cell members are electrically interconnected by means of a substantially built-in parallel connection.
34. The transmitter element of claim 32, wherein said two cell members are electrically interconnected by means of a substantially built-in anti- parallel connection.
35. The transmitter element of claim 32, wherein said switching element alternately connects said cell members in parallel and anti-parallel connections.
36. The transmitter element of claim 32, wherein said cell members have piezoelectric layers of opposite polarities.
37. The transmitter element of claim 22, wherein said cavity is covered by a two-ply piezoelectric layer including an upper layer disposed on a lower layer. 

38. The transmitter element of claim 37, wherein said upper and lower layers feature opposite polarities.
39. The transmitter element of claim 37, further including an insulating layer disposed between said upper and lower layers.
40. A method of transmitting an acoustic information, comprising:
(a) providing a substantially flexible piezoelectric layer having first and second electrodes attached thereto, said piezoelectric layer being attached to a cell member, said electrodes being electrical connected to an electrical circuit including a switching element;
(b) providing an acoustic wave for impinging on said piezoelectric layer, said acoustic wave having a reflected portion; and
(c) modulating said reflected portion of said acoustic wave by controlling the mechanical impedance of said piezoelectric layer, said controlling by switching said switching element at a frequency which equals the frequency of a message signal arriving from an electronic component.
41. The method of claim 40, wherein said electronic component is a sensor.
42. The method of claim 40, further comprising:
(a) providing third and fourth electrodes attached to said piezoelectric layer, said third and fourth electrodes being electrically connected to said electrical circuit; and
(b) changing the electrical connections between said electrodes by means of said switching element so as to change the mechanical impedance of said piezoelectric layer.
43. The method of claim 40, wherein said first and second electrodes are attached to a first cell member and said third and fourth electrodes are attached to a second cell member.
44. The method of claim 40, wherein said electrical component is a resistor. 

45. The transducer element of claim 1 , wherein said transducer is used sor. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
