<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1000142</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHODS FOR SCREENING BACTERIOPHAGE LIBRARIES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12N1510	C12N1510	C12Q102	C12Q102	C40B4002	C40B4002	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12N	C12N	C12Q	C12Q	C40B	C40B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12N15	C12N15	C12Q1	C12Q1	C40B40	C40B40	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method is provided for producing a modified bacteriophage library suitable for use in combination with cells of a selected strain that have been transformed for expression of a heterologous (non native) protein in a screening procedure in which specific binding between an individual bacteriophage of the library and a recognition site of the heterologous protein is detected. The process comprises: (a) subjecting an initial library containing said individual bacteriophage and other bacteriophage to a fractionation procedure which comprises contacting the initial bacteriophage library with cells of said selected strain which do not express said heterologous protein, whereby members of the bacteriophage library which bind to one or more proteins other than said heterologous protein are bound to the cells; (b) separating bound and unbound bacteriophage; and (c) isolating a modified bacteriophage library depleted in library members which bind to one or more proteins other than said heterologous protein. The modified bacteriophage libraries produced by the method, peptide ligands identified and/or isolated by screening procedures using the modified libraries and the use of identified ligands and consensus sequences thereof in the design of pharmaceutical and diagnostic agents also form part of the invention.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV GLASGOW
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE UNIVERSITY COURT OF THE UNIVERSITY OF GLASGOW
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLEN JANET M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAVERTY EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLEN, JANET, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAVERTY, EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHODS FOR SCREENING BACTERIOPHAGE LIBRARIESThis invention relates to methods for screening bacteriophage libraries, to modified bacteriophage libraries for use in such methods, to peptide ligands identified and/or isolated by the described procedures and to the use of identified ligands and consensus sequences thereof in the design of pharmaceutical and diagnostic agents.The use of so-called bacteriophage libraries for identifying oligonucleotide sequences that are associated with biological ligand/receptor interactions has provided a valuable technique in the quest for novel pharmaceutical substances. Typically, filamentous bacteriophage, such as the filamentous coliphage M13 are genetically modified by adding random oiigonucleotides to the coding sequences that encode one of the bacteriophage coat proteins. The coat proteins of the bacteriophage particles are consequently expressed with a random collection of N- terminal oligopeptides. The number of possible oiigonucleotides which may be constructed from the 20 naturally occurring amino acids is given by the formula 20n, where n is the number of amino acids in the oligonucleotide. As will be appreciated, the number of possible oiigonucleotides of even a modest size (n = 7) is enormous (1 .28x108), and for larger molecules (n = 15) the number of possibilities escalates to 3x1019.A typical library may contain from 106 to 1010 recombinant bacteriophage, each of which is distinguished by a coat protein (e.g. gp3 or gp8 in the case of phage M13) bearing a different N-terminal oligopeptide. Where the size of the oligonucleotide is relatively low, e.g. 7-10, every possible oligonucleotide may be represented in the library. Thus, in the case of a bacteriophage library in which the individual members have coat proteins with N-terminal 7-mers, the number of possible different 7-mers (assuming all 20 amino acids are represented) is 207 , i.e. 1.28x108 combinations and each of the possible sequences may be present in the library. 

 Bacteriophage display of peptide libraries is widely used to select peptides that recognise targets. In a typical use of a bacteriophage library to identify a ligand sequence associated with a particular receptor protein, the protein is immobilised on a support and the immobilised protein "panned" with a suspension of the library of bacteriophage particles. Those bacteriophage having coat proteins with N- terminal sequences which bind to the immobilised receptor protein will be preferentially retained and bacteriophage without
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method of producing a modified bacteriophage library suitable for use in combination with cells of a selected strain that have been transformed for expression of a heterologous (non native) protein in a screening procedure in which specific binding between an individual bacteriophage of the library and a recognition site of the heterologous protein is detected, which process comprises:
(a) subjecting an initial library containing said individual bacteriophage and other bacteriophage to a fractionation procedure which comprises contacting the initial bacteriophage library with cells of said selected strain which do not express said heterologous protein, whereby members of the bacteriophage library which bind to one or more proteins other than said hetereologous protein are bound to the cells,
(b) separating bound and unbound bacteriophage, and
(c) isolating a modified bacteriophage library depleted in library members which bind to one or more proteins other than said heterologous protein.
2. A method according to Claim 1 in which in fractionation step (a), members of the bacteriophage library which bind to native cell surface associated proteins are bound to the cells, and in step (c) a modified bacteriophage library is isolated which is depleted in library members which bind to native cell surface associated proteins of the selected strain.
3. A method of producing a modified bacteriophage library suitable for use in combination with cells of a selected strain that have been transformed for expression of a cell surface-associated heterologous (non native) protein in a screening procedure in which specific binding between an individual bacteriophage of the library and a recognition site of the cell surface associated heterologous protein is detected, which process comprises:
(a) subjecting an initial library containing said individual bacteriophage and other bacteriophage to a fractionation procedure which comprises contacting the initial bacteriophage library with cells of said selected strain which do not express said heterologous protein, whereby members of the 


 bacteriophage library which bind to native cell surface associated proteins are bound to the cells,
(b) separating bound and unbound bacteriophage, and
(c) isolating a modified bacteriophage library depleted in library members which bind to native cell surface associated proteins of the selected strain.
4. A method according to Claim 1 of producing a modified bacteriophage library suitable for use in combination with cells of a selected strain that have been transformed for expression of a first (non native) protein in a screening procedure in which specific binding between an individual bacteriophage of the library and a recognition site of the first heterologous protein is detected, wherein step (a) comprises subjecting an initial library containing said individual bacteriophage and other bacteriophage to a fractionation procedure which comprises contacting the initial bacteriophage library with cells of said selected strain which do not express said first heterologous protein, but which do express a second heterologous (non native) protein, whereby members of the bacteriophage library which bind to said second hetereologous protein are bound to the cells, and in step (c) a modified bacteriophage library is isolated which is depleted in library members which bind to said first heterologous protein.
5. A method according to Claim 4 wherein said first and second heterologous proteins are receptor proteins of different subtypes, whereby in step (c) a modified bacteriophage library is isolated which is depleted in library members which bind to heterologous proteins of the subtype comprising said second heterologous protein.
6. A method according to Claim 5, wherein the first and second heterologous proteins are different receptor subtypes that recognise a common ligand, whereby the depleted library is capable of being used to distinguish between said subtypes.
7. A method according to any preceding claim in which the bacteriophage are filamentous coli phage. 

8. A method according to Claim 7 in which the bacteriophage are coli phage M13.
9. A method according to any preceding claim in which the bacteriophage library comprises a plurality of members possessing a random collection of oligopeptides expressed at the N terminus of a coat protein.
10. A method according to Claim 9 in which the oligomers are from 7 to 18 amino acids in length.
1 1 . A method according to Claim 10 in which the oligomers are 7 amino acids in length.
12. A method according to Claim 1 1 in which the oligomers are 15 amino acids in length.
13. A method according to any preceding claim in which the selected cells are mammalian cells.
14. A method according to Claim 13 in which the selected cells are primate cells.
15. A method according to Claim 14 in which the selected cells are COS cells.
16. A method according to any preceding claim in which the cells of the selected strain which do not express the heterologous protein are mock transfected cells that have been transfected with vector which is incapable of transforming the cells to express said heterologous protein.
17. A method according to Claim 16 in which the cells of the selected strain which do not express the heterologous protein are mock transfected cells that have been transfected with vector which is incapable of transforming the cells to express any heterologous protein. 

18. A modified bacteriophage library obtainable by the method of any preceding claim.
19. A modified bacteriophage library for use in conjunction with cells of a selected strain that have been transformed for expression of a heterologous (non native) in a screening procedure in which specific binding between an individual bacteriophage of the library and a recognition site of the heterologous protein is detected, characterised in that the library is depleted in members that bind to one or more proteins other than said heterologous protein.
20. A modified bacteriophage library for use in conjunction with cells of a selected strain that have been transformed for expression of a heterologous (non native) cell surface-associatedprotein in a screening procedure in which specific binding between an individual bacteriophage of the library and a recognition site of the cell surface associated heterologous protein is detected, characterised in that the library is depleted in members that bind to native cell surface associated proteins of the selected strain.
21. A modified bacteriophage library for use in conjunction with cells that have been transformed for expression of a first heterologous (non native) protein in a screening procedure in which specific binding between an individual bacteriophage of the library and a recognition site of the heterologous protein is detected, characterised in that the library is depleted in members that bind to a second heterologous (non native) protein.
22. A modified bacteriophage library for use in conjunction with cells that have been transformed for expression of a first heterologous (non native) cell surface- associated protein in a screening procedure in which specific binding between an individual bacteriophage of the library and a recognition site of the cell surface associated heterologous protein is detected, characterised in that the library is depleted in members that bind to a second heterologous (non native) cell surface- associated protein. 

23. A method of screening a bacteriophage library so as to isolate or identify an individual bacteriophage of the library which displays an oligonucleotide which undergoes specific binding to a ligand recognition site of a protein, which comprises expressing the protein by transecting a cells of a selected strain, contacting the transfected cells with the library, and selecting bacteriophage on the basis of their capacity to bind to the protein expressed by the transected a cells, characterised in that the bacteriophage library is a modified bacteriophage library as claimed in any of Claims 18 to 22.
24. A method of screening a bacteriophage library so as to isolate or identify an individual bacteriophage of the library which displays an oligonucleotide which undergoes specific binding to a ligand recognition site of a cell surface associated protein, which comprises expressing the cell surface associated protein by transecting a cells of a selected strain, contacting the transfected cells with the library, and selecting bacteriophage on the basis of their capacity to bind to the cell surface associated protein expressed by the transected a cells, characterised in that the bacteriophage library is a modified bacteriophage library as claimed in any of Claims 18 to 22.
25. A method according to Claim 24 in which the bacteriophage are selected by carrying out a plurality of rounds of screening.
26. A method according to any of Claims 23 to 25 in which the selection procedure comprises at least one screening which comprises subjecting the target protein to a panning step in which the protein is contacted with the bacteriophage in the library, separating unbound bacteriophage from bacteriophage which are bound to the target protein, and subjecting bacteriophage which are bound to the target protein to a displacement step which comprises contacting bacteriophage which are bound to the target protein with the ligand that corresponds to the ligand receptor site, whereby bacteriophage that are bound at the ligand receptor site are displaced, and recovering displaced bacteriophage. 


27. A method of selecting from a bacteriophage library individual bacteriophage which specifically bind to a ligand receptor site of a target protein, which comprises subjecting the target protein to a panning step in which the protein is contacted with the bacteriophage in the library, separating unbound bacteriophage from bacteriophage which are bound to the target protein, and subjecting bacteriophage which are bound to the target protein to a displacement step which comprises contacting bacteriophage which are bound to the target protein with the ligand that corresponds to the ligand receptor site, whereby bacteriophage that are bound at the ligand receptor site are displaced, and recovering displaced bacteriophage.
28. A peptide identified by the screening procedure claimed in any of Claims 23 to 27.
29. The use of a peptide as claimed in Claim 28 in the manufacture of a pharmaceutical composition for treating a disease condition involving the protein or its ligand.
29. The use according to Claim 29, wherein the protein is a cell surface associated protein.
30. The use of the amino acid sequence of a peptide as claimed in Claim 29 in the design of manufacture of a pharmaceutically active substance for treating a disease condition involving the protein or its ligand.
31. The use according to Claim 30, wherein the protein is a cell surface associated protein. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
