<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1254012</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
EXTRUDER TEMPERATURE CONTROLLER WITH STABLE TEMPERATURE RESET
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C4708	B29C4792	B29C4708	B29C4792	B29C4784	B29C4778	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C47	B29C47	B29C47	B29C47	B29C47	B29C47	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention is an extruder temperature controller for an extruder barrel. The extruder temperature controller includes means for determining an actual screw speed and has means for storing a plurality of screw speeds. Each member of the plurality of stored screw speeds has a corresponding stored temperature reset value. The extruder temperature controller has a means for comparing and selecting that compares the actual screw speed to each of the plurality of stored screw speeds and selectes a default screw speed. The default screw speed has a smaller deviation from the actual screw speed than any other member of the compared, stored screw speeds. The controller further includes a means for generating a control output driver signal to the heat exchange means. The control output driver signal is the corresponding stored temperature reset value for the default screw speed. The invention further includes a means for delaying a control alarm for a predetermined time when the means for generating a control output driver signal to the heat exchange means operates at or near maximum capacity. The invention includes a method for controlling the temperature of an extruder barrel.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DAVIS STANDARD CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DAVIS-STANDARD CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EIVA SAULIUS TOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EIVA, SAULIUS, TOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to an extruder temperature controller with a stable temperature
reset and a method for controlling the temperature of a molten material in an extrusion device.
Specifically, the invention relates to an extruder temperature controller and a method for
controlling the temperature of molten extrudate wherein the control alarm is delayed for a
predetermined time when generating a control output driver signal to the heat exchange means
at or near maximum capacity of an extruder system.Extrusion devices are often used in the plastics or other industries to continuously
melt, blend, form, and solidify plastics or other materials into a desired shape. Typical
extrusion devices include a rotating screw housed coaxially within a heated, cylindrically-shaped
barrel. The screw rotates within the barrel and drives an extrusion material such as
plastic through the barrel. The extrusion material is forced through a die or aperture at the
end of the barrel. A temperature drop, that occurs when the extrusion material leaves the
heated barrel, allows the material to solidify in a molded shape that is determined by the profile
of the die.The temperature of the extrusion material or plastic within the extruder barrel must be
controlled so as to remain as near to a desired temperature as possible. An extruder barrel can
be operated to control the temperature of the extrusion material within the barrel under one or
more of three conditions. An extruder barrel can (1) add heat to a material, (2) extract heat 
from a material, or (3) maintain the heat of a material. The third condition of maintaining a
temperature of an extrusion material occurs when an extruder is operated at a speed wherein
the heat from the friction of the extrusion material created, as the material is processed in the
extruder barrel, is approximately equal to the heat loss from the extruder barrel. This
condition of no heat gain or loss in known as an "adiabatic" condition.Most extrusion devices have a plurality of heat exchange zones. The temperature of
each heat exchange zone can be independently controlled such that one or more heat exchange
zones heat the material being processed while the remaining heat exchange zones are in an
adiabatic condition or are cooling the extrusion material. It is common for a heat exchange
zone near the end of an extruder barrel to be used to cool an extrusion material before the
material is extruded through the die. This procedure allows the extrusion material to quickly
solidify upon existing the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An extruder temperature controller comprising:

means for sensing an actual screw speed of an extruder screw (10) in an extruder barrel

(12), said extruder barrel (12) having at least one heat exchange means (15);
means (16) for indexing and storing a plurality of screw speeds, each of said stored screw
speeds corresponding to a temperature reset value;
means (41a) for comparing and selecting, said means for comparing and selecting (41 a)
being capable of


(i) comparing said actual screw speed with each of said stored screw speeds,
(ii) selecting one of said stored screw speeds, said selected screw speed being a member
of said plurality of stored screw speeds having a value most arithmetically equivalent to

said actual screw speed,
(iii) retrieving said temperature reset value corresponding to said selected, stored screw
speed; and
means (36) for generating a control output driver signal (H, C) to said heat exchange means (15),
said control output driver signal being in operation responsive to said retrieved temperature reset

value from said means (41 a) for comparing and selecting,
 
   
characterized in that
 the controller (22) further comprises a means (220) for delaying a
control alarm for a predetermined time when said means (36) for generating a control output

driver signal (H, C) to said heat exchange means (15) operates at or near maximum capacity.
The extruder temperature controller of Claim 1 wherein said means (220) for delaying
a control alarm is adapted to delay triggering a new reset value when an adaptive reset controller

(22) applies a stored reset value to a dual sensor temperature controller (121).
The extruder temperature controller of Claim 2 wherein said means (220) for
delaying said control alarm is adapted to delay a criteria for triggering said new reset value from

said dual sensor temperature controller (121) for a first selected time.
The extruder temperature controller of Claim 3 wherein said selected time for
delay is four minutes.
The extruder temperature controller of Claim 3 wherein said delay timer (220) is
adapted to prevent oscillation in actual temperature.
The extruder temperature controller of Claim 1 or 4 further comprising a logic 
circuit (210) which is adapted to learn a new reset value of said actual screw speed when a

temperature in said extruder barrel (12) is stable for a preset time.
The extruder temperature controller of Claim 6 wherein said logic circuit (210)
has means for establishing a stable adaptive reset when (a) said actual screw speed is stable, (b) a

stable speed change is maintained for a second selected time, (c) said adaptive reset controller
(22) has not reached a reset limit and maintained said reset limit for a third selected time, (d)

reset is enabled, and (e) adaptive reset is enabled.
The extruder temperature controller of Claim 7 wherein said second selected time
and said third selected time are each one minute.
The extruder temperature controller of Claim 1 wherein said means (41a) for
comparing and selecting during operation of an extruder system is capable of (a) corresponding a

stabilised operating temperature reset value to each said actual screw speed and (b) entering said
actual screw speed with said corresponding temperature reset value into said means for indexing

and storing.
The extruder temperature controller of Claim 1 further comprising:

a temperature controller (121) which includes:

(a) a first comparator (40) for comparing a setpoint signal with an extruder 
barrel deep temperature signal (T
d
), said first comparator (40) providing an actual error signal
(A) to said means (41a) for comparing and selecting;
(b) a second comparator (42), which is a control setpoint controller for
performing algebraic addition of a stored control setpoint signal with said temperature reset

value, said second comparator (42) providing a control setpoint signal (T
cp
);
(c) a third comparator (43) for comparing an extruder barrel deep temperature
signal (Td) with said control setpoint signal (T
cp
), said third comparator (43) providing a first
error signal (A);
(d) a fourth comparator (44) for comparing an extruder barrel shallow
temperature signal (T
s
) with said control setpoint signal (T
cp
), said fourth comparator (44)
providing a second error signal (B); and
(e) a fifth comparator (51) for comparing said first error signal (A) and said
second error signal (B) and providing a control sum error signal (E) to said means (36) for

generating said control output driver signal to said heat exchange means (15).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
