<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1210033</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
STENT DELIVERY SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F206	A61F206	A61F282	A61F282	A61F284	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a stent delivery system comprising a catheter tube defining for a self-expanding stent a bed having a length direction in line with the catheter length, a radially outward facing stent-receiving surface, a distal end at or near the distal end of the catheter and a proximal end spaced proximally from the distal end; an outer catheter tube to circumferentially surround the bed; and the outer tube being arranged to be withdrawn proximally to release the self-expanding stent radially outwardly from the bed; and further comprising: on the stent receiving bed surface, immediately distal of the proximal end of the bed, a first pinch zone; on the outer tube, at or near a distal end thereof, and on its radially inwardly facing surface, a second pinch zone, the first and second pinch zones facing each other when the distal end of the outer tube is not quite fully withdrawn proximally, relative to the bed; the facing of the opposed first and second pinch zones defining a reduced-width annulus for pinching the proximal end of the stent to make available increased resistance to relative axial movement between the stent and the catheter shaft just prior to full withdrawal of the outer tube.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
In the context of this specification, a stent is a suppout structure, more or less
tubular, for placement within a bodily lumen to support the tissue walls of the
lumen. These stents usually require a delivery system to bring them to precisely the
desired position within the body of the patient. This invention relates to stent
delivery systems.Two broad categories of stent can be identified. In one category, the stent is fitted
around a sausage-shaped balloon, the balloon itself being on the distal end of a
catheter. The catheter is advanced, for example, in the arterial system of the patient
to the location where the stent is to be placed, and the balloon is then inflated to
deform the stent plastically, expanding the stent radially against the wall of the
bodily lumen. Since the deformation is plastic, the stent remains in its expanded
disposition after deflation of the balloon, and the catheter and balloon system can
then be withdrawn.A second category of stent comprises stents which are self-expanding. For these
stents, the delivery system employs some sort of sheath to constrain the stent in a
radially small configuration. When the stent is in the desired location, the constraint
radially outside the stent is withdrawn, allowing the stent to "spring" radially
outwardly to press against the tissue wall of the lumen and permit withdrawal of the
delivery system. The present invention relates to a delivery system for a self-expanding stent. In this
specification, the expression "proximal" relates to a point at the end of the delivery
system held by the physician, and "distal" to the opposite end.US-A-5,645,559 (Hachtman et al.) discloses a delivery system for a radially self-expanding
stent, the system having an inner tube around which the stent is fitted,
and an outer tube that radially compresses the stent. Figures 5 to 8 of the drawings
of US'559 shows progressive proximal withdrawal of the outer tube so as to release
the self-expanding stent progressively along its length commencing with the distal
end, and with the extreme proximal end of the stent being the last part of the stent to
be released radially outwardly.US'559 mentions the problem that during this release process there have been
instances of axial travel of the stent relative to the delivery system, and not under
the control of the surgeon or radiologist, so that the stent can end up in a position in
the bodily lumen either proximal of or distal of, the desired location in the lumen.
US'559 addresses this problem and proposes as a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Stent delivery system comprising:

1) a catheter tube (12) defining for a self-expanding stent (10) a bed
having a length direction in line with the catheter length, a radially

outward facing stent-receiving surface (13), a distal end at or near the
distal end of the catheter and a proximal end spaced proximally from

the distal end;
2) an outer catheter tube (30) to circumferentially surround the bed; and
3) the outer tube being arranged to be withdrawn proximally to release
the self-expanding stent radially outwardly from the bed;

and 
characterized by
:
4) on the stent receiving bed surface, close to the proximal
end of the bed, a first pinch zone (50);
5) on the outer tube, at or near a distal end thereof, and on its radially
inwardly facing surface, a second pinch zone (40);
6) the first and second pinch zones facing each other when the distal end
of the outer tube is not quite fully withdrawn proximally, relative to

the bed;
7) the facing of the opposed first and second pinch zones defining a
reduced-width annulus for pinching the proximal end of the stent to

make available increased resistance to relative axial movement
between the stent and the catheter shaft just prior to full withdrawal of

the outer tube.
Delivery system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the outer tube is a full length
outer catheter tube. 
Delivery system as claimed in claim 1or 2, wherein the outer tube carries a
marker (34).
Delivery system as claimed in claim 3, wherein the outer tube marker
deforms the outer tube radially inwardly to create the second pinch zone.
Delivery system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in which the
first pinch zone is formed by an annulus of cured polymer.
Delivery system as claimed in claim 5, wherein the cured polymer is placed
around a catheter marker (16).
Delivery system as claimed in claim 6, wherein the catheter marker also
serves to define the proximal end of the stent bed.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
