<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1255903</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CANTILEVER SUPPORT AND ERECTABLE STRUCTURES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E04B132	E04B132	E04B710	E04B710	E04B714	E04B714	E04C300	E04C300	E04C338	E04C340	E04H314	E04H314	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E04B	E04B	E04B	E04B	E04B	E04B	E04C	E04C	E04C	E04C	E04H	E04H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E04B1	E04B1	E04B7	E04B7	E04B7	E04B7	E04C3	E04C3	E04C3	E04C3	E04H3	E04H3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a support (12) for an erectable structure (10), in particular a canopy for a grandstand seating platform (98). The support (12) includes a pliable elongate main member in the form of a frame (26); a plurality of compression legs in the form of A-frames (28) mounted to the frame (26); restraint means in the form of tension wires (30) connected between the A-frames (28) and the frame (26); and an elongate tensionable element in the form of a cable (32). The support (12) is movable between a collapsed and an erect position by pivoting the support (12) about a pin joint (100), through which it is coupled to the seating platform. In a preferred embodiment, a structure (10r) comprises three such supports (12r) coupled by purlins (16r) and including membranes (14r) to define a grandstand canopy.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV DUNDEE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIVERSITY OF DUNDEE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BURFORD NEIL KEITH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH FRASER WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BURFORD, NEIL, KEITH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, FRASER, WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CANTILEVER SUPPORT AND ERECTABLE STRUCTURESThe present invention relates to supports including cantilever supports . The present invention also relates to erectable structures. In particular, but not exclusively, the present invention relates to a cantilever support, an ■ erectable structure, and an erectable grandstand canopy moveable between a substantially collapsed position and a substantially erect position.Erectable structures which are movable between collapsed and erect positions are known, such as tents and the like, and often comprise a substantially rigid frame and a stressed membrane material. Also, permanent fixed structures such as canopies having large, cumbersome frameworks are known. However, such fixed structures suffer from disadvantages including excessive weight, particularly in the case of cantilever canopies, which require excessive supporting framework for a relatively lightweight roof membrane. In the case of erectable structures, these often ..comprise many interconnecting parts, and are often complex and difficult to erect, store and transport. Furthermore, known erectable structures often have internal supporting framework which is disposed coupled to or arranged around an inner surface of the structure. This can reduce inner clearance within the structure beneath the framework, and may require the dimensions of the framework and a stressed membrane of the structure to be increased to provide a predetermined inner clearance. Also, the erectable structure may define a roof for an internal structure, and it may be desired to couple the roof to the internal structure; such internal framework may hamper coupling of the roof to the internal structure, and may be unsightly.One such erectable structure is disclosed in US Patent Number 4,325,207. An embodiment of US' 207 comprises a 

 substantially flat flexible member for bending to the shape of a curved arch. Tension line guides are attached to a side of the flexible member, and first and second tension lines are attached to the side of the flexible member at the tension line guides. The first and second tension lines are attached to respective alternate tension line guides. The tension lines are then tensioned by a motor/pulley arrangement to pull the flexible member into the arch shape, where the tension lines are disposed on the inside of the arch. In another embodiment of US' 207, the tension lines are tensioned by inserting spreader bars extending inwardly of the arch.A further such erectable structure is disclosed in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
' 1. A support capable of being reversibly moved between a substantially collapsed position and a substantially erect position, the support comprising: a pliable elongate main member capable of being bent into a curved shape; a plurality of compression legs extending above an upper surface of the main member; restraint means effectively connected between the compression legs and the main member; and an elongate tensionable element coupled between the compression legs; wherein in use, the tensionable element and the restraint means are tensioned as the pliable elongate main member
1
 is bent and the support is moved to the ' substantially erect position.
2. A support as claimed in claim 1, wherein the compression legs are mounted along the length of an upper surface of the main member.
3. A support as claimed in either of claims 1 or 2 , wherein the main member is for coupling to a rigid support and wherein, in use, the main member is pivoted about the rigid support, to tension the tensionable element and the restaint means and move the main member to an elongate curved configuration.
4. A support as claimed in claim 3, wherein the rigid support is a member of a grandstand seating platform.
5. A support as -claimed in either of claims 3 or 4, wherein the compression legs are each pivotally coupled to the main member, and are movable between substantially 


 collapsed and substantially erect positions when the elongate tensionable element is tensioned, by pivoting the main member about the rigid support.
6. A support as claimed in claim 5, wherein when the compression legs are moved to the substantially erect position, they are generally restrained from . further movement beyond the substantially erect position.
7. A support as claimed in claim 6, wherein the compression legs are restrained by the restraint means, which comprises a plurality of tension members.
8. A support as claimed in claim 6, wherein the compression legs are restrained by a sheet of a flexible material, which defines both the restraint means and the elongate tensionable element.
9. A support as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the main member comprises an elongate frame.
10. A support as claimed in claim 9, wherein the frame comprises a ladder truss structure, having two spaced elongate arms coupled together at points along the length thereof by spacing struts. ■
11. A support as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the main member tapers in width towards an overhanging end thereof when viewed in plan.
12. A support as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the compression legs progressively shorten in height from a point along the length of the main member towards an overhanging end of the support. 

13. A support as claimed in claim 12, wherein the compression legs progressively shorten in height from the point along the length of the main member towards the end opposite the overhanging 
'
end.
14. A support as claimed in either of claims 12 or 13, wherein the point along the length of the main member is a pivot point, about which the main member is pivoted in use.
15. A support as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein two compression legs are coupled together to define an A- frame .
16. A support as claimed in claim 15, wherein the compression legs are each pivotally coupled at a lower end to the main member via hinges.
17. A support as claimed in either of claims 15 or 16, wherein the A-frames each have an upper end adapted to engage the elongate tensionable element.
18. A support as claimed in claim 17, wherein the A-frames include a coupling at the upper end thereof defining a channel for receiving the elongate tensionable element.
19. A support as claimed in claim 18, wherein the elongate tensionable element carries a plurality of ferrules, each adapted to engage in a respective channel of an A-frame.
'
 20. A support as claimed in claim 19, wherein each A-frame channel includes a shoulder for engaging a corresponding shoulder of a ferrule.
21. A support as claimed in any one of claims 18 to 20, wherein the A-frames and the elongate tensionable element 


co-operate to transmit a force to the A-frames when the elongate tensionable element is tensioned by pivoting the main member about a rigid support.
22. A support as claimed -in any one of claims 15 to 21, wherein the restraint means comprises a plurality of tension members, each tension member coupled at a first end to an upper portion of a first compression leg and at a second end to the main member.
23. A support as claimed in claim 22, wherein there are two tension members for each A-frame.
24. A support as claimed in claim 23, wherein each tension member of an A-frame is coupled at the first end to the coupling at the upper end of the A-frame.
25. A support as claimed in any one of claims 15 to 21, wherein the restraint means comprises one tension member for each A-frame, coupled at one end to the main member, extending through the coupling at the upper endi of the A- frame, and coupled also at the other end to the main member .
26. A support as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the elongate tensionable element is a cable.
27. A support as claimed in any one of claims 15 to 25, wherein the elongate tensionable element comprises a sheet of a flexible material which also defines the restraint means of the support, the support including two sheets coupled to compression legs of the A-frames, each sheet being coupled to the compression legs extending from common respective sides of the main member. 

28. A support as claimed in claim 27, wherein each sheet of flexible material comprises a plurality of fabric panels, each panel extending between the compression legs of adjacent A-frames.
29. A support as claimed in claim 28, wherein each fabric panel includes webbing secured to the periphery of the panel, to strengthen each panel under load.
30. A support as claimed in either of claims 28 
.
or 29, wherein each panel is adapted, under load, to assume a support position in which the upper and lower edges of each panel curve inwardly to uniformly tension each panel .
31. A support as claimed in any one of claims 8 to 30, wherein the/each sheet of flexible material comprises a bias cut woven material, where warp and weft fibres of the material are disposed diagonally to the extent of the main member .
32. A support as claimed in claim 31, wherein the warp and weft fibres are disposed at angles of approximately 45° to the main member when the material is under load.
33. A support as claimed in either of claims 31 or 32, wherein the sheet of flexible material is coupled to the compression legs, and extends between struts of the support member frame and is coupled to a tie cable, the tie cable coupled at one end to the support adjacent an overhanging end thereof, and at the other end to an end of the support opposite the overhanging end.
34. A cantilever support capable of being reversibly moved between a substantially collapsed position and a substantially erect position, the cantilever support 


 comprising : a pliable elongate main member for coupling to a rigid support, the main member being constructed and arranged so as to be deformable between the substantially collapsed and substantially erect positions of the cantilever support, wherein in the substantially erect position, the main member is in an elongate curved configuration; a plurality of compression legs mounted at intervals along the length of the main member; respective restraint means effectively connected between each compression leg and a location spaced longitudinally along the main member from the pertaining leg; and an elongate tensionable element coupled between the compression legs; wherein in use, the cantilever support is moved to the substantially erect position by pivoting the main member about the rigid support, to tension the elongate tensionable element and the restraint means and move the main member to the elongate curved configuration.
35. A cantilever support capable of being reversibly moved between a substantially collapsed position and a substantially erect position, the cantilever support comprising: a pliable elongate main member for coupling part way along the length thereof to a rigid support, the main member being constructed and arranged so as to be deformable between the substantially collapsed and substantially erect positions of the cantilever support, wherein in the substantially erect position, the main member is in an elongate curved configuration; a plurality of compression legs pivotally mounted at intervals along the length, and extending above an upper surface, of the main member, each capable of being 


reversibly folded away from and towards the upper surface when the cantilever support is moved between the substantially collapsed and substantially erect positions; respective restraint means effectively connected between each compression leg and a location spaced longitudinally along the main member from the pertaining leg, to limit the extent of folding movement of the compression legs; and an elongate tensionable element coupled between the compression legs; wherein in use, the cantilever support is moved to the substantially erect position by pivoting the main member about the rigid support, to tension the elongate tensionable element and the restraint means, to fold the compression legs away from the upper surface of the main member 
•
 and move the main member to the elongate curved configuration.
36. An erectable structure moveable between a substantially collapsed position and a substantially erect position, the erectable structure comprising at least two spaced supports as defined in any one of claims 1 to 35, and a membrane coupled between the supports, whereby movement of the supports to the substantially erect position moves the erectable structure to the substantially erect position.
37. A structure as claimed in claim 36, wherein the main member of each support is pivotally coupled to a rigid support, which is a member of a grandstand seating platform.
38. A structure as claimed in claim 37, wherein each support is pivotally coupled to the member of the grandstand seating platform at a location intermediate the 


 ends thereof.
39. A structure as claimed in either of claims 37 or 38, wherein each support is pivotally mounted to the member of the grandstand seating platform by a pin joint.
40. A structure as claimed in any one of claims 37 to 39, wherein each main member is adapted to be pivoted about the rigid support, to move each support to the substantially erect position, by locating an end of the main member adjacent the grandstand seating platform.
41. A structure as claimed in any one of claims 36 to 40, wherein the erectable structure is in the form of a canopy for a grandstand wherein the membrane defines a roof which, in the substantially erect position, overhangs the grandstand seating platform.
42. A structure as claimed in claim 36, wherein each support has opposite ends which, in use, are adapted to be coupled to respective rigid supports .
43. A structure as claimed in claim 42, wherein the structure takes the form of one of a tent and an arch, the ends of the supports of which are adapted to be coupled to the respective rigid supports .
44. A structure as claimed in claim 36, wherein the structure takes the form of a vaulted structure having at least two supports disposed, in use, back-to-back, each support having an end adapted to overhang the rigid supports and an end adapted to be coupled thereto.
45. A structure as claimed in claim 44, wherein the rigid support comprises one of a substantially flat planar 


surface, a wall, column, platform and a stage.
46. A structure as claimed in any one of claims 36 to 45, wherein the structure further comprises stabilising means for stabilising the structure 
'
in use.
47. A structure as claimed in claim 46, wherein the stabilising means includes a tie-down cable, coupled at one end to the structure in a location adjacent an overhanging end of each support, and at an opposite end to the ground.
48. A structure as claimed in claim 47, wherein the tie- down cable is coupled to the membrane disposed between adjacent supports.
49. A structure as claimed in either of claims 47 or 48, wherein the tie-down cable is coupled at the opposite end to the grandstand seating platform.
50. A structure as claimed in any one of claims 47 to 49, wherein the tie cable is coupled also to the support at least at one Location intermediate said ends thereof via tension elements .
51. A structure as claimed in any one of .claims 36 to 50, wherein the structure further comprises two or more coupling members for 'coupling the supports together.
52. A structure as claimed in claim 51, wherein the coupling members comprise purlins and cross-bracing members, able to resist compression and tension loading.
53. A grandstand canopy for a grandstand seating platform, the canopy being moveable between a substantially collapsed position and a substantially erect position, the canopy 


comprising at least two spaced supports as defined in any one of claims 1 to 35, and one or more membranes, the/each membrane being coupled between two of the supports, the one or more membranes, in use, defining a roof of the canopy, whereby movement of the supports to the substantially erect position moves the erectable grandstand canopy to the substantially erect position.
54. A canopy as claimed in claim 53, wherein a membrane is coupled between each adjacent pair of supports.
55. A canopy as claimed in claim 53, wherein a membrane is coupled between two non-adjacent supports.
56. A method of erecting an erectable canopy, the method comprising the steps of: providing two or more cantilever supports, the supports being adapted to be moved between a substantially collapsed, slack position, and a substantially erect, taut position in which each cantilever support is in an elongate curved configuration, each cantilever support being initially disposed in the substantially collapsed, slack position; pivotally coupling each cantilever support to a rigid support- coupling one or more membranes between two of the cantilever supports; and pivoting each cantilever support about its respective rigid support, to move them to the substantially erect, taut position, whereby the one or more membranes define a roof of the canopy.
57. A method as claimed in claim 56, wherein the method comprises a method of erecting a grandstand canopy, and wherein the step of pivotally coupling each cantilever 


support to a rigid support comprises the step of coupling each cantilever support to a frame member of a 
'
grandstand seating platform.
58. A method as claimed in either of claims 56 or 57,. further comprising the 
%
 step of providing a support as defined in any one of claims 1 to 35. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
