<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1995006353</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CIRCUIT FOR SPEED CONTROL FOR A ONE-PHASE OR THREE-PHASE MOTOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02P2300	H02P2300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02P	H02P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02P23	H02P23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A circuit for controlling the speed of a three-phase motor comprises driving stages (8-16) connected directly to three-phase mains (R, S, T), the passing of mains voltage by the driving stages directly to the motor windings being controlled by a pulse width modulated signal which is generated by a control circuit (18) under control of the actual speed of the motor and which is supplied to the driving stages via circuits for galvanically separating the control circuit and the driving stages. The galvanic separation is brought about by means of light emitting diode/solar cell components.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OEHRNELL HAAKAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WIKLUND GUNNAR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WOEEL ELEKTRONIK HB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OEHRNELL, HAAKAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WIKLUND, GUNNAR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WOEEL ELEKTRONIK HB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OEHRNELL HAAKAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WIKLUND GUNNAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OEHRNELL, HAAKAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WIKLUND, GUNNAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Circuit for speed control for a one-phase or three-phase motoTechnical FieldThe present invention relates according to one aspect to a circuit for controlling the speed of a one-phase or three- phase motor, according to another aspect to a switching circuit for a.c. voltage, according to a further aspect to a circuit for controlling the speed of a three-phase motor which drives a compressor in a refrigerating machine, and according to still a further aspect to apparatuses for detecting the speed and direction of rotation of a rotating shaft.Background of the inventionIt is known from DE 3 409 299 to control the speed of a three-phase motor by pulse width modulating the mains voltage via transistor driving stages which are controlled by a control circuit which is galvanically separated from the driving stages. The driving stages are adapted for reversing the phase to change the direction of rotation."Thyristor Control of A.C. Motors", JMD Murphy, Pergamon Press, 1973, chapter 9.3, pages 154-158, shows an example of a voltage controlled speed control of a three-phase induction motor. The control is carried out by feedback of the actual speed which is compared with a set value according to Fig. 9.6. Fig. 9.5 shows a circuit for phase reversal.From DE 2 700 296, the use of opto switches is known in connection with the control of motors as well as the speed control of an electric motor in dependence of the temperature of a system component.JP 61-234620 describes a switching circuit comprising two anti-parallel connected transistors each connected in series with a blocking diode. The circuit is intended to control the current between an a.c. source and a load.EP, Al, 381 094 shows a method of coupling phase voltage to a three-phase motor. Switching of the phase voltage takes place via bridge connected thyristors. The control of the switching is accomplished by changing the turn-on angle for the thyristors. Upon e.g. start of the motor the phase voltage is clipped during parts of the period to obtain a winding current which implies a softer start. Then, the turn- on angle can successively be reduced in order to obtain the 

correct speed. The control signal to one of the two bridge connected thyristors (per phase) , is coupled optically.US, A, 3 866 097 describes a system to couple phase voltage to a three-phase motor. The system differs from that described in EP, Al, 381 094 in that the bridge connections comprise a thyristor and a diode instead of two thyristors.US,A, 5 070 291 shows an alternative manner to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. Circuit for controlling the speed of a three-phase motor, characterized by driving stages (8-16) connected directly to three-phase mains (R,S,T) and connected for passing mains voltage directly to the motor windings under control of a pulse width modulated signal, a control circuit (18) adapted to generate the pulse width modulated signal under control of the actual speed of the motor, a power module in each driving stage, comprising a bridge connection of two anti-parallel connected power transistors (70,72) which are each series-connected with a blocking diode (74,76) for directly receiving and passing the respective half-period of a mains phase to a motor winding, an optical coupling circuit (78,80) between the control circuit (18) and each power transistor, comprising an electrically activable light emitting component (90) connected to the control circuit to have the emitted light modulated by the pulse width modulated signal, and a light sensitive component (102) adapted to, without any external driving voltage of its own, generate an output signal under influence of received light of the kind that is emitted by the light emitting component, and connected for receiving the pulse width modulated emitted light to generate a voltage modulated by the pulse width modulated signal, said voltage being applied as a control voltage between the control electrode (71,72) and the emitter of the respective power transistor.
2. Circuit according to claim 1, characterized by an amplifier stage (T1,T2) between the optical coupling circuit and the respective power transistor, which amplifier stage obtains its supply voltage via a further optical coupling circuit (SI) of the same kind as the first mentioned optical coupling circuit.
3. Circuit according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in 


that to enable reversal of the direction of rotation of the motor, two of the motor phase windings are connected each to be supplied from either of the same two mains phases (R and S, respectively) via each of the respective two (8,12 and 10,14) of the power modules, one for each mains phase, and the third motor phase winding is supplied from the third mains phase (T) via a corresponding power module (16) , the reversal being controlled by a rotation direction signal obtained via a logic circuit (22). 4. Circuit according to any of the preceding claims, characterized in that the light emitting component is a light emitting diode component (90) , the supply voltage of which being modulated by the pulse width modulated signal, and the light sensitive component is a light sensitive diode component (102) of solar cell type.
5. Circuit according to any of the preceding claims, characterized in that the light emitting and light sensitive components are coupled for light transmission via a fiber optical cable (103) . 6. Circuit according to any of the preceding claims, characterized in that the actual speed of the motor is detected by means of a bar code reader (168) directed towards a bar strip (164) applied around the motor shaft.
7. Circuit according to any of the preceding claims, characterized in that the actual speed of the motor is detected by means of a piezo-electric microphone (176)- measuring the pulse width of the frequency emitted by the motor (601) .
8. Circuit for controlling the speed of a one-phase- motor, characterized by a driving stage (110) connected directly to mains (112) and connected for passing mains voltage directly to the motor winding (114) under control of a pulse width modulated signal, a control circuit adapted to generate the pulse width modulated signal under control of the actual speed of the motor, a power module in the driving stage, comprising a bridge connection of two anti-parallel connected power transistors 


which are each series-connected with a blocking diode for directly receiving and passing the respective half-period of the mains voltage to the motor winding, an optical coupling circuit between the control circuit and each power transistor, comprising an electrically activable light emitting component connected to the control circuit to have the emitted light modulated by the pulse width modulated signal, and a light sensitive component adapted to, without any external driving voltage of its own, generate an output signal under influence of received light of the kind that is emitted by the light emitting component, and connected for receiving the pulse width modulated emitted light to generate a voltage modulated by the pulse width modulated signal, said voltage being applied as a control voltage between the control electrode and the emitter of the respective power transistor.
9. Circuit according to claim 8, characterized by an amplifier stage (T1,T2) between the optical coupling circuit and the respective power transistor, which amplifier stage obtains its supply voltage via a further optical coupling circuit (SI) of the same kind as the first mentioned optical coupling circuit.
10. Circuit according to claim 8 or 9, characterized in that the light emitting component is a light emitting diode component (90) the supply voltage of which being modulated by the pulse width modulated signal, and the light sensitive component is a light sensitive diode component (102) of solar cell type.
11. Circuit according to any of claims 8-10, characterized in that the light emitting and light sensitive components are coupled for light transmission via a fibre optical cable (103) .
12. Circuit according to any of claims 8-11, characterized in that the actual speed of the motor is detected by means of a bar code reader (168) directed towards a bar strip (164) applied around the motor shaft.
13. Circuit according to any of claims 8-11, characterized in that the actual speed of the motor is detected by means of piezo-electric microphone (176) which 


measures the pulse width of the frequency emitted by the motor (601) .
14. Switching circuit for a.c. voltage, characterized by a bridge connection of two anti-parallel connected power transistors (570,572) which are each series-connected with a blocking diode (574,576) for directly receiving and passing the respective half-period of the mains voltage to a load (130), an optical coupling circuit (578,580) preceding each power transistor and comprising an electrically activable light emitting component connected to receive a voltage pulse generated by the appearance of the a.c. voltage, and a light sensitive component adapted to, without any external driving voltage of its own, generate an output signal under influence of received light of the kind that is emitted by the light emitting component, and connected for receiving a light pulse generated when the voltage pulse is supplied to the light emitting component to generate a corresponding output signal which is applied as opening pulse between the control electrode (571,572) and the emitter of the respective power transistor.
15. Circuit according to claim 14, characterized by an amplifier stage (T1,T2) between the optical coupling circuit and the respective power transistor, which amplifier stage obtains its supply voltage via a further optical coupling circuit (SI) of the same kind as the first mentioned coupling circuit.
16. Circuit according to claim 14 or 15, characterized in that the opening pulse is obtained from a capacitor (132) charged via the blocking diodes (574,576) which capacitor is connected across the light emitting diodes.
17. Circuit according to claim 14-16, characterized in that the light emitting component is a light emitting diode component, the supply voltage of which being modulated by the voltage pulse, and the light sensitive component is a light sensitive diode component of solar cell type.
18. Circuit according to any of claims 14-17, characterized in that the light emitting and light sensitive components are coupled for light transmission via a fibre 


optical cable.
19. Circuit (140) for speed control of three-phase motor (601) driving a compressor (142) in a refrigerating machine, characterized by driving stages (608) connected directly to three-phase mains (R,S,T) and connected for passing mains voltage directly to the motor windings under control of a pulse width modulated signal, a control circuit (618) adapted to generate the pulse width modulated signal under control of the actual speed of the motor and the temperature in the inlet and outlet of the compressor, a power module in each driving stage, comprising a bridge connection of two anti-parallel connected power transistors which are each series-connected with a blocking diode for directly receiving and passing the respective half-period of a mains phase to a motor winding, an optical coupling circuit between the control circuit and each power transistor, comprising an electrically activable light emitting component connected to the control circuit to have the emitted light modulated by the pulse width modulated signal, and a light sensitive component adapted to, without any external driving voltage of its own, generate an output signal under influence of received light of the kind that is emitted by the light emitting component, and connected for receiving the pulse width modulated emitted light to generate a voltage modulated by the pulse width modulated signal, said voltage being applied as a control voltage between the control electrode and the emitter of the respective power transistor.
20. Circuit according to claim 19, characterized by an amplifier stage (T1,T2) between the optical coupling circuit and the respective power transistor, which amplifier stage obtains its supply voltage via a further coupling circuit (SI) of the same kind as the first mentioned optical coupling circuit.
21. Circuit according to claim 19 or 20, characterized in that the light emitting component is a light emitting diode component (90) , the supply voltage of which being modulated 


by the pulse width modulated signal, and the light sensitive component is a light sensitive diode component (102) of solar cell type.
22. Circuit according to any of claims 19-21, characterized in that the light emitting and light sensitive components are coupled for light transmission via a fiber optical cable (103) .
23. Circuit according to claim 19-22, characterized in that the actual speed of the motor is detected by means of a bar code reader (168) directed towards a bar strip (164) applied around the motor shaft.
24. Circuit according to claim 19-22, characterized in that the actual speed of the motor is detected by means of a piezo-electric microphone (176) which measures the pulse width of the frequency emitted by the motor (601) .
25. Apparatus for detecting the speed and direction of rotation of a rotating shaft (162) , characterized by a bar code reader (160) directed towards a bar strip (164) fixed around the motor shaft, comprising two reflection detectors (166, 168) for reading the bar strip and each intended for one of the directions of rotation of the shaft, the output signals of the bar code reader, one from each reflection detector, being supplied to a processing circuit (169) which is adapted to on the basis of the number of pulses per rotation detected by the detectors, emit output signals, one for each direction of rotation of the shaft.
26. Apparatus for detecting the speed of a rotating electric motor shaft, characterized by a piezo-electric microphone (176) which is mounted on the motor to receive humming stray noise generated by vibrations of the windings of the electric motor, the microphone signal being supplied (178) to a measuring device which measures the pulse width of the frequency of this humming stray noise.
27. Circuit for controlling the speed of a three-phase motor driving resistive and inductive loads, characterized by driving stages (908-916) connected directly to three- phase mains (R,S,T) and connected for passing mains voltage directly to the motor windings under control of a pulse width modulated signal. 


 a control circuit adapted to generate the pulse width modulated signal under control of the actual speed of the motor, a power module in each driving stage, comprising a bridge connection of two anti-parallel connected power transistors (70,72), which are each series-connected with a blocking diode for directly receiving and passing the respective half- period of a mains phase to a motor winding, an optical coupling circuit (78,80) between the control circuit and each power transistor, comprising an electrically activable light emitting component connected to the control circuit to have the emitted light modulated by the pulse width modulated signal, and a light sensitive component adapted to, without any external driving voltage of its own, generate an output signal under influence of received light of the kind that is emitted by the light emitting component, and connected for receiving the pulse width modulated emitted light to generate a voltage modulated by the pulse width modulated signal, said voltage being applied as a control voltage between the control electrode and the emitter of the respective power transistor, a zero passage detector (170) between each phase and the optical coupling devices of the corresponding power transistors, the output signal of the zero passage detector being supplied together with the pulse width modulated signal to the optical coupling devices via a logic gate (190) to obtain separate control of each optical coupling device and thereby the corresponding half-period of the phase.
28. Circuit for controlling the speed of a three-phase motor, characterized by driving stages connected directly to three-phase mains (R,S,T) and connected for passing mains voltage directly to the motor windings under control of a pulse width modulated signal, a control circuit adapted to generate the pulse width modulated signal under control of the actual speed of the motor, a power module in each driving stage, comprising a bridge connection of two anti-parallel connected power transistor 


stages which are each series-connected with a blocking diode for directly receiving and passing the respective half-period of a mains phase to a motor winding, and where each power transistor stage comprises a first power transistor forming a voltage output stage, and a second power transistor connected in parallel thereto, forming a current output stage, an optical coupling circuit between the control circuit and each power transistor, comprising an electrically activable light emitting component connected to the control circuit to have the emitted light modulated by the pulse width modulated signal, and a light sensitive component adapted to, without any external driving voltage of its own, generate an output signal under influence of received light of the kind that is emitted by the light emitting component, and connected for receiving the pulse width modulated emitted light to generate a voltage modulated by the pulse width modulated signal, said voltage being applied as a control voltage between the control electrode and the emitter of the respective power transistor. 29. Circuit for controlling the speed of a three-phase motor, characterized by driving stages connected directly to three-phase mains (R,S,T) and connected for passing mains voltage directly to the motor windings under control of a pulse width modulated signal, a control circuit adapted to generate the pulse width modulated signal under control of the actual speed of the motor, a power module in each driving stage, comprising a bridge connection of first and second anti-parallel connected power transistor stages which are each series-connected with a blocking diode for directly receiving and passing the respective half-period of a mains phase to a motor winding, and where the first power transistor stage comprises a power transistor of N-IGBT type, and the second stage comprises a MOSFET transistor driven by a bipolar transistor, the emitter and collector of which being connected to the gate and source, respectively, of the MOSFET transistor, an optical coupling circuit between the control circuit 


and each power transistor stage, comprising an electrically activable light emitting component connected to the control circuit to have the emitted light modulated by the pulse width modulated signal, and a light sensitive component adapted to, without any external driving voltage of its own, generate an output signal under influence of received light of the kind that is emitted by the light emitting component, and connected for receiving the pulse width modulated emitted light to generate a voltage modulated by the pulse width modulated signal, which in the first transistor stage is applied as control voltage between the control electrode of the IGBT transistor and the base of the bipolar transistor, in the second transistor stage is applied across the emitter-base path of the bipolar transistor.
30. Circuit for controlling the speed of a three-phase motor, characterized by driving stages connected directly to three-phase mains (R,S,T) and connected for passing mains voltage directly to the motor windings under control of a pulse width modulated signal, a control circuit adapted to generate the pulse width modulated signal under control of the actual speed of the motor, a power module in each driving stage, comprising a bridge connection of two anti-parallel connected power transistor stages which are each series-connected with a first blocking diode for directly receiving and passing the respective half- period of a mains phase to a motor winding, and where each power transistor stage comprises a first power transistor and a second power transistor, where the second power transistor in series with a second blocking diode directly connecting to the first blocking diode, is anti-parallel connected with the first power transistor, a charging capacitor connecting to each connection point between said first and second blocking diode, an optical coupling circuit between the control circuit and each power transistor, comprising an electrically activable light emitting component connected to the control 


circuit to have the emitted light modulated by the pulse width modulated signal, and a light sensitive component adapted to, without any external driving voltage of its own, generate an output signal under influence of received light of the kind that is emitted by the light emitting component, and connected for receiving the pulse width modulated emitted light to generate a voltage modulated by the pulse width modulated signal, said voltage being applied as a control voltage between the control electrode and the emitter of the respective power transistor.
31. Circuit for controlling the supply of current to a current consuming load (2-6,130,200) supplied by a one-phase or multi-phase mains, characterized by one or a plurality of driving stages connected directly to a mains phase for passing mains voltage directly to the load under control of an opening signal, a control circuit (18;132,134) adapted to generate the opening signal under control of a control parameter, a power module in the driving stage, comprising a bridge connection of two anti-parallel connected power transistor stages (70,72,-570,575) which are each series-connected with a blocking diode for directly receiving and passing the respective half-period of the mains voltage to the load and comprise one or a plurality of power transistor functions, an optical coupling circuit (78,80;578-580;78,80) between the control circuit and each power transistor function, comprising an electrically activable light emitting component (90) connected to the control circuit to have the emitted light modulated by the opening signal, and a light sensitive component (102) adapted to, without any external driving voltage of its own, generate an output signal under influence of received light of the kind that is emitted by the light emitting component, and connected for receiving the pulse width modulated emitted light to generate a voltage modulated by the opening signal, said voltage being applied as a control voltage for the power transistor functions.
32. Circuit according to claim 31 for controlling the speed of three-phase motor, characterized in that a plurality of driving stages (8-16;908-916) are 



connected directly to three-phase mains (R,S,T) for passing mains voltage directly to the motor windings under control of a pulse width modulated signal, the control circuit (18) is adapted to generate the pulse width modulated signal under control of the actual speed of the motor, the power transistor stages (70,72) are adapted to pass the respective half-period of a mains phase to a motor winding, the light emitting component is connected to the control circuit to have the emitted light modulated by the pulse width modulated signal, and the light sensitive component is connected for receiving the pulse width modulated emitted light to generate a voltage modulated by the pulse width modulated signal, said voltage being applied as said control voltage.
33. Circuit according to claim 32, characterized in that the power transistor functions each comprises a power transistor (70,72), the control voltage being applied between the control electrode and the emitter thereof. 34. Circuit according to claim 32, characterized by an amplifier stage (T1,T2) between the optical coupling circuit and the respective power transistor, said amplifier stage obtaining its supply voltage via a further optical coupling circuit (SI) of the same kind as the first mentioned optical coupling circuit.
35. Circuit according to claim 33 or 34, characteried in that to enable reversal of the direction of rotation of the motor, two of the motor phase windings are connected to be supplied each from either of the same two mains phases (R,S) via each two (8,12;10;14;908,912;910,914) of the power modules, one for each mains phase, and the third motor phase winding is supplied from the third mains phase (T) via a corresponding power module (916) , the reversal being controlled by a rotation direction signal obtained via a logic circuit (22) .
36. Circuit according to claim 31 for controlling the speed of a one-phase motor, characterized in that a driving stage (110) is connected directly to mains and connected for passing mains voltage directly to the motor 


winding under control of a pulse width modulated signal, the control circuit being adapted to generate the pulse width modulated signal under control of the actual speed of the motor, the power module comprises a bridge connection of two anti-parallel connected power transistors which are each series-connected with a blocking diode for directly receiving and passing the respective half-period of the mains voltage to the motor winding, the light emitting component is connected to the control circuit to have the emitted light modulated by the pulse width modulated signal, and the light sensitive component is connected for receiving the pulse width modulated emitted light to generate a voltage modulated by the pulse width modulated signal, said voltage being applied as a control voltage between the control electrode and the emitter of the respective power transistor.
37. Circuit according to claim 36, characterized by an amplifier stage between the optical coupling circuit and the respective power transistor, said amplifier stage obtaining its supply voltage via a further optical coupling circuit of the same kind as the first mentioned optical coupling circuit.
38. Circuit according to claim 31, intended as switch for a.c. voltage, characterized in that the bridge connection comprises two anti-parallel connected power transistors (570,572) which are each series- connected with a blocking diode (574,576) for directly receiving and passing the respective half-period of the mains voltage to the load (130) , the light emitting component is connected to receive a voltage pulse generated by the appearance of the a.c. voltage, and the light sensitive component is connected for receiving a light pulse generated when the voltage pulse is suppled to the light emitting component to generate a corresponding output which is applied as an opening pulse between the control electrode and the emitter of the respective power transistor.
39. Circuit according to claim 38, characterized by an 


amplifier stage between the optical coupling circuit and the respective power transistor, which amplifier stage obtains its supply voltage via a further optical coupling circuit of the same kind as the first mentioned optical coupling circuit.
40. Circuit according to claim 39, characterized in that the opening pulse is obtained from a capacitor (132) charged via the blocking diodes, which capacitor is connected across the light emitting components. 41. Circuit according to claim 32 or 33 for controlling the speed of a three-phase motor driving a compressor (142) in a refrigerating machine (144) , characterized in that the control circuit is adapted to generate the pulse width modulated signal under control also of the temperature in the inlet and outlet of the compressor.
42. Circuit according to claim 32 or 33, characterized by a zero passage detector (170) between
'
each phase and the optical coupling devices of the corresponding power transistors, the output signal of said zero passage detector being supplied together with the pulse width modulated signal to the optical coupling devices via a logic gate (190) to obtain separate control of each optical coupling device and, thereby, the corresponding half-period of the phase.
43. Circuit according to claim 31, 32 or 35, characterized in that each power transistor stage comprises a first power transistor forming a voltage output stage, and a second power transistor connected in parallel thereto, forming a current output stage.
44. Circuit according to claim 31, 32 or 35, characterized in that the first power transistor stage comprises a power transistor of N-IGBT type and the second stage comprises a MOSFET transistor driven by a bipolar transistor, the emitter and collector of which are connected to the gate and the source respectively of the MOSFET transistor, and that the control voltage of the first transistor stage is applied between the control electrode of the IGBT-transistor and the base of the bipolar transistor and of the second transistor stage across the emitter-base path of the bipolar transistor. 


 45. Circuit according to claim 31, 32 or 35, characterized in that each power transistor stage comprises a first power transistor and a second power transistor, where the second power transistor in series with a second blocking diode directly connecting to the first blocking diode, is anti-parallel connected with the first power transistor, a charging capacitor connecting to each connection point between said first and second blocking diode. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
