<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1995013462</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TURBOCHARGERS FOR INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02B3718	F02B3718	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02B	F02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02B37	F02B37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A turbocharger has a drive-shaft mounted in bearing means in a housing. The drive shaft drivably connects an exhaust gas driven turbine wheel to the impeller of an air compressor (22). A gas flow control device, such as a wastegate (10, 39) and/or a variable geometry turbine inlet nozzle, positioned upstream of the turbine wheel is operable to adjust the operating performance of the turbocharger. An electrically drivable actuator motor (17, 45), such as a D.C. motor or a stepper motor, is provided for regulating the operation of the gas flow control device via a linkage means (14, 15, 405, 407, 406, 825, 830, 835) in response to an electrical signal dependent at least upon the delivery pressure of the compressor. In a preferred arrangement the linkage means includes a relatively rotatable threaded lead screw (15) and a correspondingly threaded female screw member (14) threadably engaged therewith.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALLIEDSIGNAL LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HALSALL PHILIP STUART
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALLIEDSIGNAL LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HALSALL, PHILIP, STUART
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HALSALL PHILIP STUART
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HALSALL, PHILIP, STUART
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TURBOCHARGERS FOR INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINESThis invention relates to turbochargers for internal combustion engines and relates more particularly to the control of the exhaust gas driven turbine of a turbocharger.With the increase in popularity of compression ignition engines, particularly in passenger cars and light commercial vehicles, there is an incentive to provide small turbochargers for such engines to enhance their power output. With a well designed turbocharger a compression ignition engine can produce a power output which is similar to an engine of much larger capacity. Moreover the environmental cleanliness and fuel consumption may even show improvements relative to petrol engines. Again, a turbocharger employed on a petrol engine can greatly increase its power output.A typical exhaust gas driven turbocharger comprises a bearing housing assembly supporting a rotatable shaft, one end of which carries an air compressor wheel enclosed by a compressor housing and the other end of which carries a turbine wheel enclosed by a turbine housing and which is subjected to exhaust gas flow to drive the compressor.In order to constrain the boost pressure which such a turbocharger can produce at the air induction manifold of the engine, it has been proposed to provide a so-called "wastegate" including a controllable exhaust gas by-pass valve. Typically, such a wastegate valve has comprised a spring biased poppet valve having a valve stem connected to a pressure responsive diaphragm subject, in a valve opening direction, to a control pressure derived from the output of the turbocharger compressor. By providing such a wastegate it is possible to prevent a turbocharger from overboosting and advantageously to improve the matching of the operation of the turbocharger to the demands of the engine. However, the control thereby achieved is only approximate because the system is pneumatic and is dependent not only upon the boost pressure but also upon the value of a spring bias, 

the effective control areas and the exhaust gas pressure acting on the valve. In practice such control is only a compromise consistent with providing reasonable engine performance whilst preventing possible damage to the engine due to overboosting.An alternative form of turbocharger control has also been proposed in which the input nozzle geometry of a drive turbine of a turbocharger is variable. One form of such a variable input nozzle is described in EP-A-0 571 205 published on 24 November 1993, the disclosure of which is incorporated
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A turbocharger comprising a drive-shaft mounted in bearing means in a housing, the drive-shaft drivably connecting an exhaust gas driven turbine wheel to the impeller of a compressor, a gas flow control device positioned upstream of the turbine wheel and operable to adjust the operating performance of the turbocharger, and an electrically drivable actuator motor for regulating the operation of the gas flow control device via a linkage means in response to an electrical signal dependent at least upon the delivery pressure of the compressor, the linkage means comprising a male threaded lead screw and a correspondingly threaded female screw member threadably engaged therewith.
2. A turbocharger as claimed in claim 1, wherein one of said female threaded screw member and male threaded lead screw is arranged to move generally linearly on rotary motion of the other of said screw member and said lead screw when driven by the actuator motor.
3. A turbocharger as claimed in claim 2, wherein the female screw member is rotated by driving of the actuator motor.
4. A turbocharger as claimed in claim 2 or claim 3, wherein the generally linearly movable one of said threaded lead screw and said screw member is provided with means for adjusting the longitudinal extent of the linkage means.
5. A turbocharger as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the lead screw is provided with a multistart thread.
6. A turbocharger comprising a drive-shaft mounted in bearing means in a housing, the drive-shaft drivably connecting an exhaust gas driven turbine wheel to the impeller of a compressor, a gas flow control device positioned upstream of the turbine wheel and operable to 


adjust the operating performance of the turbocharger, and an electrically drivable actuator motor for regulating the operation of the gas flow control device via a linkage means in response to an electrical signal dependent at least upon the delivery pressure of the compressor, the linkage means comprising a fixed length linkage, a motor output crank arm pivotally connected to the linkage and a further crank arm pivotally connected to the linkage at a different position to said motor output crank arm. 7. A turbocharger as claimed in claim 6, wherein the length of the fixed length linkage is adjustable.
8. A turbocharger as claimed in claim 6, or claim 7, wherein the two crank arms are positioned generally parallel to one another. 9. A turbocharger as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the gas flow control device comprises a wastegate valve operable to by-pass around the turbine wheel exhaust gas from upstream of the turbine wheel. 10. A turbocharger as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the gas flow control device comprises a variable geometry nozzle at the exhaust gas input to the turbine wheel.
11. A turbocharger as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the actuator motor comprises a DC motor.
12. A turbocharger as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the actuator motor is a stepper motor.
13. A turbocharger as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the actuator motor is a switch reluctance technology motor.
14. A turbocharger as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the actuator motor output passes to the linkage means through a reducing gearbox. 15. A turbocharger as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the linkage means is arranged to 


translate rotary motion of the output shaft of the actuator motor into generally linear movement of the gas flow control device.
16. A turbocharger as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the axis of rotation of the actuator motor is positioned generally parallel to, and offset from, the axis of the turbocharger drive-shaft.
17. A turbocharger as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, further comprising boost pressure sensing means arranged to sense the delivery pressure of the compressor, said electrical signal being at least in part dependent on the pressure sensed by said pressure sensing means.
18. A turbocharger as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, further comprising a position sensor to provide positional information on the gas flow control device, said electrical signal being further dependent on the output of the position encoder or potentiometer.
19. A turbocharger as claimed in claim 18, wherein the position sensor comprises a potentiometer.
20. A turbocharger as claimed in claim 19, when dependent on claim 14, wherein the potentiometer, actuator motor and gearbox are packaged together in a single water- resistant housing. 21. A turbocharger as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said electrical signal is further dependent on the speed of the engine to which compressed air is, in use, supplied by the compressor.
22. A turbocharger as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said electrical signal is further dependent on one or more of the temperature of the exhaust gas, the mass flow rate of air passing through the compressor and the throttle setting of the engine to which compressed air is, in use, supplied by the compressor. 23. A turbocharger as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, further comprising control means for 


producing said electrical signal to control operation of the actuator motor to regulate the operation of the gas flow control device.
24. A turbocharger as claimed in claim 23, wherein the control means is an electronic control unit (ECU) .
25. A turbocharger as claimed in either of claims 23 and 24 when dependent on claim 9, wherein the control means is adapted to regulate the position of the wastegate valve, through operation of the actuator motor, to keep the compressor delivery pressure below a predetermined value. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
