<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1993015533</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CONNECTOR HAVING PLATE-TYPE INTERNAL SHIELDING
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R1200	H01R1216	H01R13648	H01R13648	H01R13719	H01R13719	H01R2400	H01R2400	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R12	H01R12	H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	H01R24	H01R24	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to an electrical connector assembly comprising a plug connector and a socket connector mating therewith, which plug connector is provided with at least two rows of terminal connections and which socket connector is provided with at least two rows of terminal connections, the plug connector being provided with at least one electrically conducting first type of shielding member arranged between the rows of terminal connections, the socket connector being provided with at least one conducting second type of shielding member arranged between the rows of terminal connections and comprising at least one first type of sprung contact element, which first shielding member and second shielding member make electrically conducting contact with one another when the plug connector and the socket connector have been pushed into one another, wherein the first type of shielding member in the plug connector contains at least one second type, also sprung, of contact element which is situated at least virtually in one plane and each first type of sprung contact element in the socket connector is situated at least virtually in one plane.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DU PONT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
E.I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MITRA NIRANJAN KUMAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MITRA, NIRANJAN, KUMAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TitleCONNECTOR HAVING PLATE-TYPE INTERNAL SHIELDINGBackground of the InventionThe invention relates to an electrical connector assembly comprising a plug connector and a socket connector mating there- with, which plug connector and socket connector can be pushed into one another, which plug connector is provided with at least two rows of terminal connections which are accommodated in a first plastic housing and at least one row of which consists of male terminal pins, and which socket connector is provided with at least two rows of terminal connections which are accommodated in a second plastic housing and at least one row of which consists of female terminal connections, one male terminal pin always being in elec¬ trically conducting contact with a female terminal connection when plug connector and socket connector are pushed into one another, the plug connector being provided with at least one electrically conducting first type of shielding member arranged between the rows of terminal connections in the plug connector and being rigidly accommodated in the first housing, the socket connector being pro¬ vided with at least one conducting second type of shielding member arranged between the rows of terminal connections in the socket connector, being rigidly accommodated in the second housing and comprising at least one first type of sprung contact element, which first shielding member and second shielding member make electrical¬ ly conducting contact with one another when, the plug connector and the socket connector have been pushed into one another.Such a connector assembly is disclosed by the InternationalPatent Application WO 88.04484. This describes two connectors, a plug connector and a socket connector which can be pushed onto one another. The plug connector comprises two rows of male terminal pins which are able to mate with two rows of female terminal con- 

nections of the socket connector. Between the two rows of male terminal pins in the housing of the plug connector there is accom¬ modated at least one plate-type shielding member. Accommodated between the two rows of female terminal connections in the housing of the socket connector is also a shielding member which has a female structure with sprung lips which grip round the plate-type shielding member of the plug connector if the plug connector is connected to the socket connector. If a plug connector and a socket connector are connected, shielding against electromagnetic inter- ference is therefore produced between the two rows of male and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. An electrical connector assembly, comprising a plug con¬ nector and a socket connector mating therewith, which plug con- nector and socket connector can be pushed into one another, which plug connector is provided with at least two rows of terminal con¬ nections which are accommodated in a first plastic housing and at least one row of which consists of male terminal pins, and which socket connector is provided with at least two rows of terminal connections which are accommodated in a second plastic housing and at least one row of which consists of female terminal connections, one male terminal pin always being in electrically conducting con¬ tact with a female terminal connection when plug connector and socket connector are pushed into one another, the plug connector being provided with at least one electrically conducting first type of shielding member arranged between said rows of terminal connec¬ tions in the plug connector and being rigidly accommodated in the first housing, the socket connector being provided with at least one conducting second type of shielding member arranged between said rows of terminal connections in the socket connector, being rigidly accommodated in a second housing and comprising at least one first type of sprung contact element, which first shielding member and second shielding member make electrically conducting contact with one another when the plug connector and the socket connector have been pushed into one another, wherein the first type of shielding member (15) in the plug connector (2) contains at least one second type, also sprung, of contact element (18, 19) which is at least virtually situated in one plane and that each said first type of sprung contact element (18, 19) in the socket connector (1) is situated at least virtually in one plane.
2. An electrical connector assembly according to Claim 1 , wherein the first type of shielding member (15) is provided with a first elongated support (22) for the sprung contact elements (18, 19) wherein each of the contact elements (18, 19) is connected to the support (22) via a narrow neck (26, 27) providing the spring 


action .
3. An electrical connector assembly according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein the second type of shielding member is provided with a second elongated support for the sprung contact elements wherein each of the contact elements (18, 19) is connected to the support (22) via a narrow neck (26, 27) providing the spring action.
4. An electrical connector assembly according to Claim 1 , 2 or 3, wherein the first type of shielding member (15) comprises several contact elements which are arranged alongside one another and consist of alternately closed contact elements (18) and of open contact elements (19), the latter being provided with at least two lips (20, 21).
5. An electrical connector assembly according to Claim 1 , 2, 3 or 4, wherein the second type of shielding member (14) comprises several contact elements (18, 19) which are arranged alongside one another and consist of alternately closed contact elements (18) and of open contact elements (19), the latter being provided with at least two lips (20, 21).
6. An electrical connector assembly according to Claim 4 or 5, wherein a small dimple (23, 24) is provided on the ends of the lips (20, 21).
7. An electrical connector assembly according to one of the preceding claims, wherein, when plug connector (2) and socket con¬ nector (1) are pushed into one another, closed contact elements (18) are always situated opposite open contact elements (19).
8. An electrical connector assembly according to Claim 1 , 2 or 3, wherein the first shielding member (15) comprises several closed contact elements (18) situated alongside one another.
9. An electrical connector assembly according to Claim 1, 2, 


3 or 8, wherein the second shielding member (14) comprises several closed contact elements (18') situated alongside one another.
10. An electrical connector assembly according to Claim 8 or 9, wherein the closed contact elements (18) of the first shielding member (15) are provided with small dimples (23
1
, 24') at their end.
11. An electrical connector assembly according to Claim 8 or 9, wherein the closed contact elements (18') of the second shield¬ ing member (14) are provided with small dimples (23', 24') at their end.
12. An electrical connector assembly according to Claim 1 , 2 or 3, wherein the first shielding member (15) comprises several closed contact elements (18) situated alongside one another and the second shielding member (14) comprises several open contact elements (19) situated alongside one another, and when plug con¬ nector (2) and socket connector (1) are pushed into one another, the closed contact elements (18) are situated opposite an open contact element (19).
13. An electrical connector assembly according to Claim 1 , 2 or 3, wherein the second shielding member (14) comprises several closed contact elements (18) situated alongside one another and the first shielding member (15) comprises several open contact elements (19) situated alongside on another, and when plug connector (2) and socket connector (1) are pushed into one another, the closed con¬ tact elements (18) are situated opposite an open contact element (19).
1 . An electrical connector assembly according to Claim 1 , 2 or 3, wherein the second shielding member (14) comprises several closed contact elements (18') situated alongside one another and the first shielding member (15) comprises several closed contact elements (18) situated alongside one another, and when plug con- 


nector (2) and socket connector (1 ) are pushed into one another, the closed contact elements (18') of the second shielding member (14) close off the opening between two adjacent, oppositely situ¬ ated closed contact elements (18) of the first shielding member (15) and the closed contact elements (18) of the second shielding member (15) close off the opening between two adjacent, oppositely situated closed contact elements (18') of the first shielding mem¬ ber (14).
15. An electrical connector assembly according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the ends of the contact elements of the second type of shielding member are to some extent bent, and where¬ in the ends of the contact elements (18, 18', 19) of the first type of contact member (15) are also bent to some extent.
16. An electrical connector assembly according to Claim 15, wherein the ends of adjacent contact elements (18/19, 18/18, 18'/18') of both the first and the second type of shielding members (15, 14) are to some extent bent, turn and turn about, to an oppositely facing side.
17. An electrical connector assembly according to one of the preceding claims, wherein projections (43, 44) situated between adjacent contact elements (18, 18', 19) in the housing (5, 6) are provided against which the contact elements (18, 18', 19) rest in the longitudinal direction of the connector (1 , 2) .
18. An electrical connector assembly according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the first shielding member (15) is made of conducting plate material approximately 0.15 mm thick.
19. An electrical connector assembly according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the second shielding member (14) is made of conducting plate material approximately 0.15 mm thick.
20. An electrical connector assembly according to one of the 


preceding claims, wherein the open contact element (19) is provided with a notch (45) in a section which connects the two lips (20, 21) to one another, which notch (45) mates with a rib (46) provided on the wall of the respective housing (5, 6).
21. A plug connector provided with a first shielding member (15) as defined in one of the preceding claims.
22. A pocket connector provided with a second shielding mem- ber (14) as defined in one of the preceding claims.
23. A shielding member for an electrical connector assembly as defined in one of the preceding claims.
***** 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
