<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1992010152</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR SURGICALLY PROFILING THE CORNEA USING VACUUM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F900	A61F900	A61F9007	A61F9013	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F9	A61F9	A61F9	A61F9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Refractive error of the cornea is corrected by a scraping procedure of rotating or oscillating a sharpened knife edge blade that is tangential to and against a top of the cornea at its center axis, and micro-axially advanced until the refractive error has been corrected.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CORNEAL CONTOURING INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CORNEAL CONTOURING, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KILMER LAUREN G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REYNOLDS ALVIN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KILMER, LAUREN, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REYNOLDS, ALVIN, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR SURGICALLY PROFILING THE CORNEA USING VACUUMRELATED APPLICATIONS This application is a continuation-in-part of copending PCT application, PCT/US/90/7406, 12 December 1990, based on U.S. Serial No. 07/450,672, filed 14 December 1989. 
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to a method and apparatus for adjusting the shape of components of the eye and more particularly to making fixed changes in the corneal curvature to correct refractive error. Deviations from the normal shape of the corneal surface produce errors of refraction in the visual process. The eye in a state of rest, without accommodation, focuses the image of distant objects exactly on the retina. Such an eye enjoys distinct vision for distant objects without effort. Any variation from this standard constitutes ametropia, a condition in which the eye at rest is unable to focus the image of a distant object on the retina. Hyperopia is an error of refraction in which, with the eye at rest, parallel rays from distant objects are brought to focus behind the retina. Divergent rays from near objects are focused still further back. In one aspect of hyperopia, the corneal surface is flattened which decreases the angle of refraction of rays as they pass through the refractive surfaces of the cornea, causing a convergence or focus of the rays at a point behind the retina. The retina is comprised partially of nerve fibers which are an expansion of the optic nerve. Waves of light falling on the retina are converted into nerve impulses and carried by the optic nerve to the brain to produce the sensation of light. To focus parallel rays on the retina, the hyperopic eye must either accommodate, i.e., increase the convexity of its lens, or a convex lens of sufficient strength to focus rays on the retina must be placed before the eye.Myopia is that refractive condition in which, with accommodation completely relaxed, parallel rays are brought to focus in front of the retina. One condition which commonly causes myopia is when the corneal curvature is steepened, thus the refraction of rays is greater as the rays pass through the 

 refractive surfaces of the cornea, and the over-refracted rays converge or focus in front of the retina in the vitreous of the eye. When the rays reach the retina they become divergent, forming a circle of diffusion and consequently a blurred image. A concave lens is used to correct the focus of the eye for myopia.The normal treatment of these classic forms of refractive error of the eye is with
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method of reprofiling a cornea comprising the steps of creating a vacuum chamber above said cornea; positioning a corneal scraping tool within said vacuum chamber; and turning said tool to scrape the anterior of said cornea to create a desired optically corrective curvature.
2. A method of reprofiling the corneal portion of an eye to change the corneal radius and thus correct refractive errors, comprising the steps of: creating a keratograph of a simulated cornea having correct refractive qualities, creating an actual keratograph of said cornea, comparing said simulated keratograph with said actual keratograph to determine an amount of said refractive error, preparing a scraping tool to include at least one blade of shape to scrape said cornea sufficient to change its corneal radius to that of said simulated cornea, positioning a holding sleeve over said cornea, creating a vacuum chamber within said holding sleeve above said cornea, positioning said scraping tool within said vacuum chamber of said holding sleeve so as to be contiguous to said eye such that said blade will contact said cornea, axially moving said scraping tool, and indexing the axial movement of said scraping tool until said corneal radius has been corrected to that of said simulated cornea. 


 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said axially moving of said scraping tool is done incrementally.
4. Apparatus for reprofiling the corneal portion of an eye of animals (including humans) to change the corneal radius and thus correct refractive errors, comprising a scraping tool, said tool having a plurality of sculpting blades of shape to scrape said cornea to said desired corneal radius; means to create a vacuum chamber above said cornea; means to position said reprofiling tool within said vacuum chamber and to rotate or oscillate said scraping tool relative to said cornea.
5. Apparatus of claim 4 including indexing means to provide indication of the axial location of said scraping tool relative to said cornea.
6. Apparatus of claim 4 wherein the amount of said vacuum is within the range of 6 to 10 inches of Hg. 

7. Apparatus for reprofiling the corneal portion of an eye of animals (including humans) to change the corneal radius and thus correct refractive errors, comprising a cylindrical positioning ring having resilient vacuum ring means on its bottom side for temporary attachment to a sclera portion of said eye and surrounding said cornea to be reprofiled, positioning pins at a top side of said positioning ring, and vacuum means communicating with said vacuum ring means: a cylindrical holding sleeve, means at a bottom of said holding sleeve to interconnect with said positioning pins, screw threads of a given pitch formed on an exterior portion of said holding sleeve, and further having a resilient cylindrical sleeve at the bottom thereof in contact with said cornea; a guide sleeve having screw threads of said given pitch formed interiorly thereof for axial movement by rotatable attachment with said holding sleeve; means to create a vacuum chamber within said holding and guide sleeve above said cornea; a scraping tool, said scraping tool adopted to be rotatably and axially received within said positioning ring, said holding sleeve and said guide sleeve, a collar means on said scraping tool to rotatably support said scraping tool upon said guide sleeve, a plurality of scraper blades at the bottom of said scraping tool of shape to sculpt the desired corrective curvature in said corneal portion. 


 8. Apparatus of Claim 7 wherein said scraper blades are such to effectively increase the corneal radius.
9. Apparatus of Claim 8 wherein said scraper blades comprise a plurality of radial blades, the bottom sharpened ends of which are transverse to the axis of said scraping tool.
10. Apparatus of Claim 7 wherein said holding sleeve and said cylindrical sleeve are substantially transparent.
11. Apparatus of claim 7 wherein said pitch of said screw threads is between 35 to 50 threads per inch.
12. Apparatus of claim 11 wherein said pitch of said screw threads is 40 threads per inch.
13. Apparatus of claim 12 wherein said holding sleeve and said guide sleeve includes micrometer indexing means for incrementally measuring said axial movement of said scraping tool. 

1 14. Apparatus for reprofiling the corneal portion of an
2 eye of animals (including humans) to correct refractive
3 errors, comprising
4 a positioning ring having means to be temporarily
5 attached to and surround the eye relative to the cornea to be
6 reprofiled;
7 a holding sleeve having means at its bottom to be
8 retained by the positioning ring, a guide sleeve rotatably
9 connected to the holding sleeve; 0 means to create a vacuum chamber within said holding 1 sleeve above said cornea; 2 a scraping tool adapted to be received within the holding 3 sleeve and supported by the guide sleeve, a bottom end of the 4 scraping tool being positionable within said vacuum chamber 5 and comprised of means, at said bottom end, to scrape a 6 portion of the cornea necessary to correct said refractive 7 errors.
1 15. An implement for reprofiling the anterior surface of
2 the cornea of an eye comprising:
3 a tool comprising a spindle having at one end thereof
4 constituting its inner end, scraper blade means projecting
5 endwise therefrom and extending outwardly from the spindle
6 axis for scraping off portions of the anterior surface of the
7 cornea by rotation or oscillation of the tool with the edge of
8 the blade means in scraping engagement with said anterior
9 surface, 0 means for holding the spindle for rotation on its axis 1 and for axial movement with the spindle extending at its said *2 inner end out of said holding means, 3 means for mounting said holding means on the cornea of an -4 eye in fixed relation to the eye with the blade means at the 5 inner end of the spindle in position for scraping engagement 


 with the anterior surface of the cornea to scrape said surface in a circular manner, means to create a vacuum within a chamber formed by said means for mounting above the cornea, said blade means being operative within said vacuum chamber, means for gauging the extension of the inner end of the spindle from the holding means to gauge the penetration of the edge of the blade means into the cornea for said scraping, and said gauging means being adjustable to vary the extension of the inner end of the spindle from the holding means.
16. An implement for surgically reprofiling the anterior surface of the cornea of an eye comprising: an axial tool having at one end thereof constituting its inner end, blade means projecting endwise therefrom and extending outwardly from the axis of the tool for correcting refractive error on the anterior surface of the cornea by rotation or oscillation of the tool with the edge of the blade means in engagement with said anterior surface, means for holding the tool for rotation on its axis and for controllable axial movement, with the tool extending at its said inner end out of said holding means, means for mounting said holding means on the cornea of an eye in fixed relation to the eye with the blade means at the inner end of the tool in position for engagement with the anterior surface of the cornea, means to create a vacuum within a chamber formed by said means for mounting above the cornea, said blade means being operative within said vacuum chamber, means for gauging and adjusting the axial extension of the inner end of the tool from the holding means to gauge the locus of the edge of the blade means relative to said anterior surface of said cornea. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
