<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1998044872</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SURGICAL STENT HAVING A STREAMLINED CONTOUR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F200	A61F200	A61F204	A61F204	A61F206	A61F206	A61F282	A61F290	A61L3100	A61L3100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61L	A61L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61L31	A61L31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A surgical stent (10) is provided which is formed of a plurality of stent segments (40) having a streamlined contour. Each stent segment (40) includes an outer surface (42) spaced from an inner surface (44). The inner surface (44) is bordered by inner edges (54), (56) and the outer surface (42) is bordered by outer edges (50), (52). The outer edges (50), (52) have a contour defined by outer curves (64), (66) and the inner edges (54), (56) have a contour defined by inner curves (60), (62). Radii of curvature for the inner curves (70), (72) are greater than radii of curvature for the outer curves (64), (66). The inner surface (44) is thus streamlined for passage of blood/bodily fluid (B) adjacent the inner surface (44) and the outer surface (42) is particularly configured for maximum adherence without irritation to an inner surface (S) of a body lumen (L), such as an artery. The surfaces (42), (44) of the stent segment (40) are provided with a surface finish of sufficient smoothness to further enhance blood/fluid flow (B) adjacent the stent segment (40) and to minimize irritation of tissues forming the inner surface (S) of the body lumen (L) in which the surgical stent (10) is implanted.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FRANTZEN JOHN J
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FRANTZEN, JOHN, J.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRANTZEN JOHN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRANTZEN, JOHN, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SURGICAL STENT HAVING A STREAMLINED CONTOURTechnical FieldThe following invention relates to surgical stents of a generally tubular configuration which can be surgically implanted into a body lumen, such as an artery, and be radially expanded to support the lumen. More specifically, this invention relates to radially expandable surgical stents which exhibit an inner surface which has a streamlined contour and a finely polished surface to minimize disruption of bodily fluid flow through the lumen.Background ArtSurgical stents have long been known which can be surgically implanted into a body lumen, such as an artery, to reinforce, support, repair or otherwise enhance the performance of the lumen. For instance, in cardiovascular surgery it is often desirable to place a stent in the coronary artery at a location where the artery is damaged or is susceptible to collapse. The stent, once in place, reinforces that portion of the artery allowing normal blood flow to occur through the artery. One form of stent which is particularly desirable for implantation in arteries and other body lumens is a tubular stent which is formed as a complete tubular cylinder and can be radially expanded from a first smaller diameter to a second larger diameter. Such radially expandable stents can be inserted into the artery by being located on a catheter and fed internally through the arterial pathways of the patient until the unexpanded stent is located where desired. The catheter is fitted with a balloon or other expansion mechanism which exerts a radial pressure outward on the stent causing the stent to expand radially to a larger diameter. Such expandable stents exhibit sufficient rigidity after being expanded that they will remain expanded after the catheter has been removed.Radially expandable stents come in a variety of different configurations to provide optimal performance to various different particular circumstances. For instance, the patents to Lau (Patent Nos. 5,514,154, 5,421,955, and 5,242,399), Baracci (Patent No. 5,531,741), Gaterud (Patent No. 5,522,882), Gianturco (Patent Nos. 5,507,771 and 5,314,444), Termin (Patent No. 5,496,277), Lane (Patent No. 5,494,029), Maeda (Patent No. 5,507,767), Marin (Patent No. 5,443,477), Khosravi (Patent No. 5,441,515), lessen (Patent No. 5,425,739), Hickle (Patent No. 5,139,480), Schatz (Patent No. 5,195,984), Fordenbacher (Patent No. 5,549,662) and Wiktor (Patent No. 5,133,732), each include some form of radially expandable stent for implantation into a body lumen. 

 Some
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
Claim 1 - A radially expandable surgical stent for implanting into a body lumen to improve the function of the body lumen, the stent comprising in combination: a plurality of segments joined together to form a hollow generally cylindrical stent, each said segment having an inner surface defining part of an inner diameter of said stent and an outer surface defining part of an outer diameter of said stent; said inner surface bordered by inner curved edges; said outer surface bordered by outer curved edges; and said inner edges having a greater radius of curvature than said outer edges, such that said inner surface is streamlined to facilitate smooth passage of body fluids through the lumen in which said stent is implanted.
Claim 2 - The stent of Claim 1 wherein said inner edges include an inner leading curve and an inner trailing curve, said inner leading curve adjacent a leading surface of said segment between said inner surface and said outer surface, said inner trailing curve between said inner surface and a trailing surface between said inner surface and said outer surface of said segment and opposite said leading surface, said inner leading curve having an inner leading radius of curvature substantially equal to an inner trailing radius of curvature of said inner trailing curve, such that said inner edges are substantially mirror images of each other and said stent is reversible.
Claim 3 - The stent of Claim 2 wherein said outer edges include an outer leading curve and an outer trailing curve, said outer leading curve having an outer leading radius of curvature and said outer trailing curve having an outer trailing radius of curvature, both said inner leading radius of curvature and said inner trailing radius of curvature greater than said outer leading radius of curvature and said outer trailing radius of curvature.
Claim 4 - The stent of Claim 3 wherein said inner leading radius of curvature is greater than twice a size of said outer leading radius of curvature.
Claim 5 - The stent of Claim 1 wherein said segments of said stent are formed from a metallic material.
Claim 6 - The stent of Claim 1 wherein said inner surface and said outer surface of said stent are free from corrosion induced pitting resulting from exposure of said stent to corrosive materials. 


 Claim 7 - The stent of Claim 1 wherein said inner surface of said stent exhibits a finish smoothness having no deformations extending more than five micro inches above surrounding portions of said inner surface.
Claim 8 - The stent of Claim 1 wherein said inner leading radius of curvature has a size greater than a size of a thickness of said segment between said inner surface and said outer surface.
Claim 9 - A stent for surgical implantation into a body lumen which minimizes disruption of flow of bodily fluids through the body lumen and resists restenosis surrounding said stent, said stent comprising in combination: a plurality of segments joined together to form a hollow generally cylindrical stent, each said segment having an inner surface defining part of an inner diameter of said stent and an outer surface defining part of an outer diameter of said stent; said inner surface and said outer surface extending between a leading surface and a trailing surface, said leading surface located upstream from said trailing surface when said stent is located within the body lumen; an inner leading edge located between said leading surface and said inner surface; an outer leading edge located between said leading surface and said outer surface; and said inner leading edge having an inner leading curve which is more gradual than an outer leading curve of said outer leading edge.
Claim 10 - The stent of Claim 9 wherein said inner surface, said leading surface and said trailing surface have a finish smoothness which is free of deformations extending more than five micro inches above surrounding portions of said inner surface, said leading surface and said trailing surface.
Claim 11 - The stent of Claim 10 wherein said stent is formed from a metallic material taken from the group of materials including stainless steel, nickel titanium, polyhydrocarbons and implantable materials and alloys.
Claim 12 - The stent of Claim 11 wherein said inner surface, said outer surface, said leading surface and said trailing surface are free from pitting induced by exposure of said stent to corrosive materials.
Claim 13 - The stent of Claim 12 wherein said segments of said stent are joined together in a manner allowing a diameter of said stent to be expanded. 


 Claim 14 - The stent of Claim 13 wherein said inner trailing edge has an inner trailing curve which is substantially a mirror image of said inner leading curve of said inner leading edge, such that said inner leading edge and said inner trailing edge are mirror images of each other and said stent is reversible.
Claim 15 - A surgical stent for implantation into a body lumen, said stent having a substantially cylindrical contour and being radially expandable, the stent comprising in combination: a plurality of circumferential elements, each circumferential element encircling said cylindrical contour of said stent; at least two of said plurality of circumferential elements having an undulating form including at least one trough and at least one crest as said undulating circumferential elements circumscribe said cylindrical contour of said stent; at least one axial element located between two adjacent said circumferential elements and attached to one of said adjacent circumferential elements at a first junction and to the other of said circumferential elements at a second junction; each said element having an inner surface defining an inner diameter of said stent and an outer surface defining an outer diameter of said stent, wherein said inner surface is bordered by inner curved edges and said outer surface is bordered by outer curved edges, said inner edges having a greater radius of curvature than said outer edges; and said inner surface having a finish smoothness free of deformations extending more than five micro inches away from said inner surface, such that bodily fluid flow through a lumen fitted with said stent is only minimally disrupted by the presence of said stent within said lumen.
Claim 16 - The surgical stent of Claim 15 wherein said inner edges bordering said inner surface have contours which are mirror images of each other, such that said stent is reversible within the body lumen without altering resistance of said stent to bodily fluid flow when reversed within a lumen.
Claim 17 - The surgical stent of Claim 16 wherein said radius of curvature of said inner edges is greater than a thickness of said stent between said inner surface and said outer surface.
Claim 18 - The surgical stent of Claim 17 wherein said radius of curvature of said outer edges is less than said thickness of said stent.
Claim 19 - The surgical stent of Claim 18 wherein said radius of curvature of said inner edges is non-constant and has a maximum size which is greater than twice the size of said radius of curvature of said outer edges. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
