<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1996038882</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MULTIPLE BAND PRINTED MONOPOLE ANTENNA
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01Q138	H01Q138	H01Q500	H01Q500	H01Q501	H01Q904	H01Q930	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01Q1	H01Q1	H01Q5	H01Q5	H01Q5	H01Q9	H01Q9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A printed monopole antenna (10) is disclosed including a printed circuit board (12) having a first side (14) and a second side (16), a monopole radiating element in the form of a conductive trace (18) formed on one side of the printed circuit board, wherein the conductive trace has an electrical length in which primary resonance occurs within a first specified frequency band, and a parasitic element (20) formed on the opposite side of the printed circuit board, wherein the parasitic element is designed to tune the conductive trace to a secondary resonance within a second specified frequency band. No direct electrical connection between the monopole radiating element and the parasitic element exists, but the coupling between such elements causes the secondary resonance of the radiating element to occur within the second frequency band.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERICSSON GE MOBILE INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERICSSON INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAYES GERARD J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAYES, GERARD, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MULTIPLE BAND PRINTED MONOPOLE ANTENNABACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to monopole antennas for radiating electromagnetic signals and, more particularly, to a printed monopole antenna including at least one radiating element formed on one side of a printed circuit board having an electrical length where the radiating element has a primary resonance within a first frequency band and a parasitic element formed on the opposite side of the printed circuit board designed to tune a secondary or higher mode resonant response of the radiating element within a second frequency band.2. Description of Related ArtIt has been found that a monopole antenna mounted perpendicularly to a conducting surface provides an antenna having good radiation characteristics, desirable drive point impedance, and relatively simple construction. As a consequence, monopole antennas have been utilized with portable radios, cellular telephones, and other personal communication systems. To date, however, such monopole antennas have generally been limited to wire designs (e.g., the helical configuration in U.S. Patent 5,231,412 to Eberhardt et al. ) , which operate at a single frequency and associated bandwidth.In order to minimize size requirements and permit multi-band operation, microstrip and lamina antennas have been developed for use with certain communication applications. More specifically, U.S. Patent 4,356,492 to Kaloi discloses a microstrip antenna system including separate microstrip radiating elements which operate at different and widely separated frequencies while being fed from a single common input 

point. However, these radiating elements are directly connected with each other and require a ground plane which fully covers the opposite side of a dielectric substrate from such radiating elements. Clearly, this design is impractical for monopole antenna applications, and indeed functions in a completely different manner. Likewise, the lamina antennas disclosed by U.S. Patents 5,075,691 and 4,800,392 to Garay et al. require both a direct connection between radiating elements and a ground plane in order to provide multi-band operation.Further, U.S. Patent 5,363,114 to Shoemaker discloses a planar serpentine antenna which includes a generally flat, non-conductive carrier layer and a generally flat radiator of a preselected length arranged in a generally serpentine pattern secured to the surface of the carrier layer. One form of this antenna has a sinuous pattern with radiator
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A printed monopole antenna, comprising:
(a) a printed circuit board having a first side and a second side;
(b) a monopole radiating element comprising a conductive trace formed on said printed circuit board first side, said conductive trace having an electrical length so as to have a primary resonance within a first specified frequency band; and
(c) a parasitic element formed on said printed circuit board second side, said parasitic element covering a specified area so as to tune said conductive trace to have a secondary resonance within a second specified frequency band.
2. The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, said conductive trace having a physical length from a feed end to an opposite end.
3. The printed monopole antenna of claim 2, wherein said physical length of said conductive trace is substantially equivalent to said electrical length of said conductive. trace.
4. The printed monopole antenna of claim 2, wherein said physical length of said conductive trace is less than said electrical length of said conductive trace.
5. The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, wherein said first specified frequency band is approximately 800 MegaHertz to approximately 1000 MegaHertz. 


6. The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, wherein said second specified frequency band is approximately 1800 MegaHertz to approximately 2000 MegaHertz.
7. The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, wherein said electrical length of said conductive trace is substantially equivalent to a quarter wavelength for a frequency within said first specified frequency band.
8. The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, wherein said electrical length of said conductive trace is substantially equivalent to a half wavelength for a frequency within said first specified frequency band.
9. The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, wherein no direct electrical connection exists between said monopole radiating element and said parasitic element.
10. The printed monopole antenna of claim 2, further comprising a feed port including a signal feed portion and a ground portion, said signal feed portion being coupled only to said conductive trace.
11. The printed monopole antenna of claim 10, wherein said feed port comprises a coaxial connector.
12. The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, wherein said printed circuit board is made of a flexible dielectric material.
13. The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, wherein said printed circuit board, said conductive trace, and said parasitic element are overmolded. 


14. The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, wherein said parasitic element is made of a conductive material.
15. The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, wherein said parasitic element has a physical length approximately ten percent or less of said conductive trace electrical length.
16. The printed monopole antenna of claim 2, wherein said parasitic element is positioned on said printed circuit board at an end opposite said conductive trace feed end.
17. The printed monopole antenna of claim 2, wherein said parasitic element has a physical length approximately ten percent or less than said physical length of said conductive trace.
18. The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, wherein said parasitic element fully covers said printed circuit board second side from a first point to a second point.
19. The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, wherein said parasitic element partially covers said printed circuit board second side from a first point to a second point.
20. The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, wherein said second specified frequency band does not include an integer multiple of said primary resonance frequency within said first specified frequency band. 


21. The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, wherein said parasitic element is sized to be a non- resonant element.
22. A printed monopole antenna, comprising:
(a) a substantially planar printed circuit board having a first side and a second side;
(b) a monopole radiating element comprising a conductive trace formed on said printed circuit board first side, said conductive trace having an electrical length sized to provide a primary resonance within a specified frequency band; and
(c) a non-resonant parasitic element formed on said printed circuit board second side, said parasitic element being positioned and configured to tune a secondary or higher mode resonant response of said conductive trace to a second specified frequency which does not include an integer multiple of a frequency within said first specified frequency band.
23. A printed monopole antenna, comprising:
(a) a substantially planar circuit board having a first side, a second side, a feed end, and an open end;
(b) a plurality of monopole radiating elements, each said monopole radiating element comprising a conductive trace formed on said printed circuit board first side, wherein each conductive trace has a specified electrical length so as to have a primary resonance within a designated frequency band; and 


 (c) a parasitic element formed on said printed circuit board second side, said parasitic element covering a specified area so as to tune each of said conductive traces to have a secondary resonance within a designated frequency band.
24. The printed monopole antenna of claim 23, wherein said conductive traces are oriented substantially parallel to each other.
25. The printed monopole antenna of claim 23, wherein said conductive traces have substantially equivalent physical lengths.
26. The printed monopole antenna of claim 23, wherein at least one of said conductive traces has a physical length different than said remaining conductive traces.
27. The printed monopole antenna of claim 23, wherein no direct electrical connection exists between said plurality of monopole radiating elements.
28. The printed monopole antenna of claim 23, further comprising a feed port including a signal feed portion and a ground portion, said signal feed portion being coupled to only one of said conductive traces.
29. The printed monopole antenna of claim 23, wherein at least one of said conductive traces has a physical length less than its electrical length. 


30. The printed monopole antenna of claim 23, wherein at least one of said conductive traces has a physical length substantially equivalent to its electrical length.
31. The printed monopole antenna of claim 23, wherein no direct electrical connection exist between said conductive traces and said parasitic element.
32. The printed monopole antenna of claim 23, wherein said parasitic element is positioned on said printed circuit board at said open end.
33. The printed monopole antenna of claim 23, wherein said parasitic element fully covers said printed circuit board second side from a first point to a second point.
34. The printed monopole antenna of claim 23, wherein said parasitic element partially covers said printed circuit board second side from a first point to a second point.
35. The printed monopole antenna of claim 23, wherein said secondary resonance for each said conductive trace occurs at a frequency which is not an integer multiple of said respective primary resonance frequency.
36. The printed monopole antenna of claim 23, wherein said parasitic element is sized to be a non- resonant element. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
