<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1999008742</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SPRING CLIP AS NEEDLE TIP PROTECTION FOR A SAFETY IV CATHETER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M532	A61M532	A61M2500	A61M2500	A61M2506	A61M2506	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M5	A61M5	A61M25	A61M25	A61M25	A61M25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A safety IV catheter includes a unitary, resilient needle guard received in a catheter hub. The needle guard includes a proximal arm or wall that includes an opening through which a needle passes for axial movement. When the needle is retracted from the catheter it releases the force that had previously prevented movement of the needle guard within the catheter hub. This in turn causes the needle guard to snap into a position in which it is clamped onto the needle shaft and in which its distal wall blocks access to the needle tip. In this condition, the spring needle guard and needle can be removed from the catheter hub. A slot or bulge may be formed in the needle shaft that engages with the needle guard after the protected needle and needle guard are removed from the catheter hub, thereby to prevent removal of the protected needle from the needle guard.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRAUN MELSUNGEN AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
B. BRAUN MELSUNGEN AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOEHLER MATTHEW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ORTH MANFRED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOEHR KEVIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WYNKOOP MARK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOHLER, MATTHEW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ORTH, MANFRED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOEHR, KEVIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WYNKOOP, MARK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SPRING CLIP AS NEEDLE TIP PROTECTION FOR A SAFETY IV CATHETERTECHNICAL FIELD This is a continuation-in-part of application Serial No. 09/097,170, filed June 12, 1998, which is a continuation-in-part of application Serial No. 08/915,148 filed on August 20, 1997.This invention relates generally to intravenous (IV) catheters, and, in particular, to a safety IV catheter in which the needle tip is automatically covered after needle withdrawal to prevent the health-care worker from making accidental contact with the needle tip.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION I.V. catheters are primarily used to administer fluids, sometimes containing medications, directly into a patient's vascular system. The catheter is inserted into a patient's vein by a health care worker by using a handheld placement device that includes a sharp tip needle. The needle is positioned in the interior hollow portion of the catheter with its tip extended slightly beyond the edge of the catheter. The end of the apparatus opposite the needle tip is made up of the needle connected to a needle hub which is capable of being held by the health care worker during the insertion procedure.The insertion procedure contains four basic steps: (1) the health care worker inserts the needle and catheter together into the patient's vein; (2) after insertion into the vein with the needle point, the catheter is forwarded into the vein of the patient by the health care worker pushing the catheter with his or her finger; (3) the health care worker withdraws the needle 

by grasping the hub end (opposite the point end) while at the same time applying pressure to the patient ' s skin at the insertion site with his or her free hand; and (4) the health care worker then tapes the now inserted catheter to the patient's skin and connects the exposed end of the catheter, the catheter hub, to the source of the fluid to be administered into the patient's vein.The problem is that immediately after the withdrawal of the needle from the patient's vein, the health care worker who is, at this time, involved in at least two urgent procedures must place the exposed needle tip at a nearby location and address the tasks required to accomplish the needle withdrawal. It is at this juncture that the exposed needle tip creates a danger of an accidental needle stick occurring, which under the circumstances, leaves the health care worker vulnerable to the transmission of various, dangerous blood-borne pathogens, including AIDS and hepatitis.This danger to the health care worker from
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. In an IV catheter including a tubular catheter, a needle having a needle shaft and a tip, said needle being received within said tubular catheter when in a ready position, a catheter hub attached to the proximal end of said catheter, said catheter hub having a hollow interior and an inner wall, said needle being movable between said ready position in which said tip is outside of said catheter hub and a retracted position in which said tip is within the interior of said catheter hub, a unitary needle guard substantially positioned in the interior of said catheter hub and including a resilient portion engaged by said needle shaft when said needle is in said ready position, a section of said resilient portion of said needle guard being urged by said needle shaft into retaining contact with an interior wall of said catheter hub, said needle guard also including a distal wall extending from said resilient portion and spaced from said needle when said needle is in said ready position and movable, within the interior of said catheter hub to a blocking position distal of said needle tip when said needle is in its retracted position in which said needle shaft no longer exerts a force on said resilient portion of said needle guard, and means for clamping said needle guard to said needle when said needle guard is in its said blocking position. 2. The catheter of Claim l, in which said distal wall of said needle guard is contiguous with said resilient portion, said resilient portion including a curved lip engaging the 


underside of said needle shaft when said needle is in its said ready position.
3. The catheter of Claim 2 , in which said needle guard further includes a proximal arm and a transverse segment extending between said distal wall and said proximal arm, said clamping means including first and second engagement points on said proximal arm and said transverse segment respectively, which are urged against opposing locations on said needle shaft when the needle is in the retracted position, thereby to clamp said needle guard to the needle shaft.
4. The catheter of Claim 3 , further including a groove formed in said inner wall of said catheter hub, said groove engaging said needle guard in said ready position to aid in retaining said needle guard in said ready position.
5. The catheter of Claim 3, further including a bump formed in said inner wall of said catheter hub, said bump engaging said needle guard in said ready position to aid in retaining said needle guard in said ready position.
6. The catheter of Claim 4, in which a slot is formed in said needle shaft at a location proximal to said needle tip, said slot being positioned slightly distal of said contact point of said needle guard proximal arm so that upon additional proximal axial movement of said needle said contact point on said proximal arm of said needle guard is received in said needle slot. 

7. The catheter of Claim 5, in which a slot is formed in said needle shaft at a location proximal to said needle tip, said slot being positioned slightly distal of said contact point of said needle guard proximal arm so that upon additional proximal axial movement of said needle said contact point on said proximal arm of said needle guard is received in said needle slot.
8. The catheter of Claim 6, further comprising a needle hub affixed to said proximal end of said needle and further comprising a tether attached at one end to said needle hub and at its other end to said needle guard.
9. The catheter of Claim 7, further comprising a needle hub affixed to said proximal end of the needle and further comprising a tether attached at one end to said needle hub and at its other end to said needle guard.
10. The catheter of Claim 1, in which said needle guard further includes a proximal arm and a transverse segment extending between said distal wall and said proximal arm, said clamping means including first and second engagement points on said proximal arm and said transverse segment respectively, which are urged against opposing locations on said needle shaft when said needle is in the retracted position, thereby to clamp said needle guard to said needle shaft.
11. The catheter of Claim 10, further including a groove formed in said inner wall of said catheter hub, said groove 


engaging said needle guard in said ready position to aid in retaining said needle guard in said ready position.
12. The catheter of Claim 1, in which a slot is formed in said needle shaft at a location proximal to said needle tip, said slot being positioned slightly distal of said contact point of said needle guard proximal arm so that upon additional proximal axial movement of the needle said contact point on said proximal arm of said needle guard is received in said needle slot.
13. The catheter of Claim 12, further comprising a needle hub affixed to said proximal end of the needle and further comprising a tether attached at one end to said needle hub and at its other end to said needle guard.
14. The catheter of Claim 1, further including a groove formed in said inner wall of said catheter hub, said groove engaging said needle guard in said ready position to aid in retaining said needle guard in said ready position.
15. The catheter of Claim 14, in which a slot is formed in said needle shaft at a location proximal to the needle tip, said slot being positioned slightly distal of said contact point of said needle guard proximal arm so that upon additional proximal axial movement of said needle said contact point on said proximal arm of said needle guard is received in said needle slot.
16. The catheter of Claim 15, further comprising a needle hub affixed to said proximal end of the needle and further 


comprising a tether attached at one end to the needle hub and at its other end to said needle guard.
17. The catheter of Claim 10, in which a slot is formed in said needle shaft at a location proximal to said needle tip, said slot being positioned slightly distal of said contact point of said needle guard proximal arm so that upon additional proximal axial movement of said needle said contact point on said proximal arm of said needle guard is received in said needle slot.
18. The catheter of Claim 2, further including a groove formed in said inner wall of said catheter hub, said groove engaging said needle guard in said ready position to aid in retaining said needle guard in said ready position.
19. The catheter of Claim 1, further comprising a bump formed in said inner wall of said catheter hub, said bump engaging said needle guard, in said ready position to aid in retaining said needle guard in said ready position.
20. The catheter of Claim 2, further comprising a bump formed in said inner wall of said catheter hub, said bump engaging said needle guard in said ready position to aid in retaining said needle guard in said ready position.
21. The catheter of Claim 10, further comprising a bump formed in said inner wall of said catheter hub, said bump engaging said needle guard in said ready position to aid in retaining said needle guard in said ready position. 

22. The catheter of Claim 1, in which said needle guard further includes an upper end proximal to said resilient portion and in contact with an opposed interior wall of the catheter hub in said ready position.
23. The catheter of Claim 2, in which said needle guard further includes an upper end proximal to said resilient portion and in contact with an opposed interior wall of the catheter hub in said ready position.
24. The catheter of claim 3, in which said needle guard further includes an upper end wall contiguous with said transverse segment and proximal to said resilient portion and in contact with an opposed interior wall of the catheter hub in the ready position.
25. The catheter of Claim 4, in which said needle guard further includes an upper end wall contiguous with said transverse segment and proximal to said resilient portion and in contact with an opposed interior wall of the catheter hub in the ready position.
26. The catheter of Claim 10, in which said needle guard further includes an upper end wall contiguous with said transverse segment and proximal to said resilient portion and in contact with an opposed interior wall of the catheter hub in the ready position.
27. The catheter of Claim ll, in which said needle guard further includes an upper end wall contiguous with said transverse segment and proximal to said resilient portion and in 


contact with an opposed interior wall of the catheter hub in the ready position.
28. The catheter of Claim 14, in which said needle guard further includes an upper end proximal to said resilient portion and in contact with an opposed interior wall of the catheter hub in said ready position.
29. The catheter of Claim 18, in which said needle guard further includes an upper end proximal to said resilient portion and in contact with an opposed interior wall of the catheter hub in said ready position.
30. The catheter of Claim 6, in which said needle guard further includes an upper end proximal to said resilient portion and in contact with an opposed interior wall of the catheter hub in said ready position.
31. The catheter of Claim 12, in which said needle guard further includes an upper end proximal to said resilient portion and in contact with an opposed interior wall of the catheter hub in said ready position.
32. The catheter of claim 1, in which said needle guard further comprises a proximal arm having a lower curved segment in contact with an inner wall of said catheter hub when said needle guard is in its said ready position.
33. The catheter of claim 32, in which said proximal arm further includes an upper end in engagement with an opposed location of said inner wall of said catheter hub distal to the 


point of contact with said lower curved segment when said needle guard is in its said ready position.
34. The catheter of claim 33, in which a groove is formed in said lower end of said catheter hub, said distal wall of said needle guard including a lower curved portion seated in said groove when said needle guard is in its said ready position.
35. The catheter of claim 34, in which said needle includes a slot formed in its periphery at a location proximal to the needle tip, said needle guard further including a transverse section extending between said proximal arm and said distal wall and including a flexible flap received in said needle slot when said needle guard is in its said blocking position.
36. The catheter of claim 34, in which said needle includes a slot formed in its periphery at a location proximal to the needle tip, said needle guard further including a transverse section extending between said proximal arm and said distal wall and including a locking tab received in said needle slot when said needle guard is in its said blocking position.
37. The catheter of claim 1, in which said needle guard includes first and second distal walls which overlap one another and form a distal barrier to said needle when said needle guard is in its said blocking position.
38. The catheter of claim 37, in which said needle guard further comprises a proximal end wall having an opening for receiving said needle therethrough and first and second arms 


extending respectively between said proximal end wall and said first and second distal walls.
39. The catheter of claim 38, in which said distal walls each include a curved protruding segment at the end of said arms, said catheter hub including an annular groove for receiving said protruding segments when said needle guard is in its said ready position.
40. The catheter of claim 39, in which each of said arms includes a wide section hingedly secured to said first and second distal walls and a narrow section extending from said wide section to said end wall.
41. The catheter of claim 40, in which said clamping means includes a clamping edge formed on a proximal end of said wide section.
42. The catheter of claim 41, in which said needle includes a large diameter segment on the needle shaft inward of said needle tip, the diameter of said large diameter segment being greater than that of. said opening in said proximal end wall.
43. The catheter of claim 41, in which said needle guard includes a proximal end wall extending from said resilient portion and including an opening allowing said needle to pass therethrough, said needle further including a large diameter segment on the needle shaft inward of said needle tip, the diameter of said large diameter segment being greater than that of said opening in said proximal end wall. 

44. The catheter of Claim 43, in which said needle guard further comprises a proximal end wall having an opening for receiving said needle therethrough, said needle further comprising a large diameter on the needle shaft inward of said needle tip, the diameter of said large diameter segment being greater than that of said opening in said proximal end wall.
45. The catheter of claim 25, in which said needle guard includes a proximal end wall extending from said resilient portion and including an opening allowing said needle to pass therethrough, said needle further including a large diameter segment on the needle shaft inward of said needle tip, the diameter of said large diameter segment being greater than that of said opening in said proximal end wall.
46. The catheter of Claim 34, in which said needle guard further comprises a proximal end wall having an opening for receiving said needle therethrough, said needle further comprising a large diameter on the needle shaft inward of said needle tip, the diameter of said large diameter segment being greater than that of said opening in said proximal end wall.
47. The catheter of Claim 1, further comprising a proximal end wall and in which said resilient means includes an arm extending between said distal wall and said proximal end wall.
48. The catheter of Claim 47, in which said resilient means further includes a curved lip at the upper end of said distal wall. 

49. The catheter of Claim 47, further comprising a wall extending distally and upwardly from the lower end of said proximal end wall and terminating at a clamping edge.
50. The catheter of Claim 49, further comprising a resilient finger formed in said transverse arm, said finger and said clamping edge engaging opposing surfaces of said needle when said needle is in its said ready and blocking positions.
51. The catheter of Claim 48, in which said needle includes a circumferential groove forced inwardly of said tip, said finger being adapted to enter into said groove in the event an axial force is applied to said needle in the proximal direction when said needle guard is in its said blocking position.
52. The catheter of Claim 48, further comprising a wall extending distally and upwardly from the lower end of said proximal end wall and terminating at a clamping edge.
53. The catheter of Claim 52, further comprising a resilient finger formed in said transverse arm, said finger and said clamping edge engaging opposing surfaces of said needle when said needle is in its said ready and blocking positions. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
