<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1999017993</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DE-WIRING APPARATUS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65B6900	B65B6900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65B	B65B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65B69	B65B69	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention relates to a method of de-wiring paper bales and/or pulp bales, each one of which being tied up by metal wires, and the bale being intended to pass a de-wiring apparatus by transport on a conveyor. According to the invention the method is characterized by the combination of the following steps: the bale is forced to stop when it has come up to the de-wiring apparatus, whereafter two units (2, 3) of the same, going towards each other, are applied against two opposite side surfaces of the bale, so that the bale is fixed between the units by clamping; the wires surrounding the bale are cut off at the one of the mentioned side surfaces by means of a cutting tool (5), being a part of the one unit (2); the wires are caught hold of on the opposite side of the bale and is thereafter wound up by a combined gripping and winding up tool (11), being a part of the second unit, which tool is forced to rotate so that the wires are wound up on the same and form bobbins; the wires, wound up to bobbins, are discharged from the gripping and winding up tool (11) by a discharging means (20). The invention also relates to a de-wiring apparatus.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AXNER PER OLOF
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AXNER, PER-OLOF
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AXNER PER-OLOF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AXNER, PER-OLOF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 De-wi■rx•ng appara.t.us 1This invention relates to a method of de-wiring paper bales and/or pulp bales, each one of which being tied up by metal wires, and the bale being intended to pass a de-wiring apparatus by transport on a conveyor.The invention also relates to a de-wiring apparatus for carrying out the method. A plurality of solutions are previously known within this area of technique. An example of that is the technical solution shown and described in the aAmerican patent No. 4.850.087.This document discloses two plate-formed holders, positioned at an angular distance of 90° from each other, against which the bale is intended to rest. Each holder has a cutting- off tool, a separate gripping tool and a winding-up tool. There are several drawbacks connected with this device. Firstly, the device becomes very expensive by having so many different tools. Secondly, the efficiency becomes suffering, since the three different tools with so different functions are positioned on one and the same holder. Therefore, there have been requirements in the market for a de-wiring apparatus, which cuts off the wire as well as removes the same from the bale in an effective way.This invention intends to satisfy these requirements and provide a new de-wiring apparatus, which makes possible an effective cutting-off procedure for the wires as well as an effective removal of the same.This has been made possible by the fact that the method and apparatus according to the invention have the steps and features mentioned in the claims.A preferred embodiment of the invention shall be described in more detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 shows a survey view of the new de-wiring apparatus, applied at a conveyor, Fig. 2 shows a view from above of the de- wiring apparatus, Fig. 3 shows a detailed view of a tool being a part of the apparatus, Fig 4 shows a detailed view of another tool being a part of the apparatus, and Fig. 5 shows a schematic view of the design of the teeth of the tool according to Fig. 4.The new de-wiring apparatus for bales, which is intended to cooperate with a conveyor 1 for the bale, known in the market, comprising two units 2, 3, which are movably arranged towards and from each other on a frame, this movement being made essentially perpendicular to the conveyor 1. In this connection the one unit 2 is arranged on the one side of the conveyor and the other unit 3 on the other side of the conveyor.The first unit 2 comprises a cutting-off tool 5 for the wires (see Fig. 3).
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Claims
1. A method of de-wiring paper bales and/or pulp bales, each one of which being tied up by metal wires, and the bale being intended to pass a de-wiring apparatus by transport on a conveyor, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by the combination of the following steps: - The bale is forced to stop when it has come up to the de-wiring apparatus, whereafter two units (2, 3) of the apparatus, going towards each other, are applied against two opposite side surfaces of the bale, so that the bale is fixed by clamping between the units;
- The wires surrounding the bale are cut off at the one of the mentioned side surfaces by a cutting-off tool (5) being a part of the one unit (2);
- The wires are seized on the opposite side of the bale and are thereafter wound up by a combined gripping and winding-up tool (11), which is a part of the second unit and is forced to rotate, the wires being wound up on the same and forming bobbins; - The wires wound up to bobbins are discharged from the gripping and winding- up tool (11) by a discharging means (20).
2. An apparatus for de-wiring paper bales and/or pulp bales, each one of which being tied up by metal wires, and the bale being intended to pass the mentioned apparatus by transport and being forced to stop at this one, and the apparatus comprising tools for cutting off and removal of the wires, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by the combination of the following features:
- The apparatus comprises a first unit (2), which is movably arranged on the one side of the conveyor (1) towards or from the bale in a direction which is essentially perpendicular to the moving direction of the bale on the conveyor, the unit (2) comprising a cutting-off tool (5) for cutting off the wires;
- The apparatus comprises a second unit (3), which is movably arranged on the other side of the conveyor (1) in a direction, which is essentially perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the conveyor, the unit (3) comprising an elongated gripping and winding-up tool (11), which is arranged essentially parallel with the conveyor, and which can catch hold of the wire/wires for winding up the same to bobbins, the gripping and winding-up tool (4) being intended to rotate so that the wire/ wires are wound up on the same; 


 - The second unit (3) further comprises a discharging device (20), which is designed in that way that it can be forced to move on the outside of the elongated gripping- and winding-up tool (11), whereby the bobbins, wound up on the tool, are removed from the mentioned tool (12). 3. An apparatus according to claim 2, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the cutting-off tool (5) comprises two strips (6, 7) provided with teeth which are directed towards each other, the strips being positioned on top of and in contact with each other, and that the one strip is movable in relation to the second one for effective cutting off the wires.
4. An apparatus according to claim 2 or 3, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the gripping and winding-up tool (11) comprises an essentially circular-cylindrical metal rod, which is rotatably journalled in its rear part, that a great number of slots (13), arranged in parallel, are made on a portion of the jacket surface of the rod along the entire rod and essentially perpendicularly to the longitudinal direction of the rod, that a longitudinal recess (14) is made essentially along the entire rod straightly through the slots and a short distance into the rod, the teeth (15) formed by the mentioned recess being designed in that way that they are directed towards the rear part of the rod, and that a metal strip (16), which is provided with teeth (17), directed forwards, i.e. towards the other teeth (15), is displacably arranged in the mentioned recess (14), the teeth (15, 17), directed towards each other, being intended to cooperate for fastening the wires by clamping. 5. An apparatus according to claim 2 or 3, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the gripping and winding-up tool (11) comprises an outer, essentially circular-cylindrical, tubular means, which is rotatably journalled in its rear part, and that a great number of slots, arranged in parallel, are made on a portion of the jacket surface of the means along the entire means and essentially perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the means, which slots penetrate into the cavity of the means, that a longitudinal recess is made essentially along the entire rod straightly through the slots, whereby teeth are formed which are designed in that way that they are directed towards the rear part of the means, and that a second means, essentially concentric with the first means, which second means is displacably arranged in relation to the first means and is essentially circular-cylindrical regarding the design, is intended to be inserted in the first, tubular means, the second means being provided with a strip, extending along the entire means, which strip is intended to be positioned in the mentioned recess, the mentioned strip having a great number of teeth, 


which are directed towards the teeth of the first means, the teeth of the two means being intended to cooperate for fastening the wires by clamping. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
