<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-2002009282</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
THREE-TERMINAL INVERTING HYSTERETIC TRANSISTOR SWITCH BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03K300	H03K32893	H03K33565	H03K508	H03K508	H03K1730	H03K1730	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03K3	H03K3	H03K3	H03K5	H03K5	H03K17	H03K17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An Inverting hysteretic transistor switch having an input terminal (13), an output terminal (17) and a ground terminal (15) includes, in some embodiments (11), a metal-oxide semiconductor field effect transistor (MOSFET) having an on switching state and an off switching state. The MOSFET includes a drain terminal connected to the output terminal, a gate terminal and a source terminal connected to the ground terminal. The switch further includes a hysteresis circuit (12) connected to the input terminal and to the gate terminal of the MOSFET. In use, with an input voltage having low-to-high and high-to-low input voltage transitions applied to the input terminal, the hysteresis circuit switches the MOSFET to its on switching state at a first threshold voltage during low-to-high input voltage transitions. In addition, the hysteresis circuit switches the MOSFET to its off switching state at a second threshold voltage, which is less than the first threshold voltage, during high-to-low input voltage transitions.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CONGDON JAMES S
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CONGDON, JAMES, S.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONGDON JAMES S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONGDON, JAMES, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 THREE-TERMINAL INVERTING HYSTERETIC TRANSISTOR SWITCH BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates generally to transistor switches and, more particularly, to inverting transistor switches. Transistor switches, or transistors, are well known in the art and are commonly used. Transistors are solid-state electronic devices which are capable of amplification and switching.Inverting transistors are well known in the art and are commonly used to invert an input signal. Inverting transistors, such as bipolar transistors and metal-oxide semiconductor field effect transistors (MOSFETs), typically contain only three terminals. Specifically, inverting transistors contain an input terminal, an output terminal which is used to connect the transistor to a load and a ground terminal. Contrary to the configuration of noninverting transistors, inverting transistors do not require a fourth terminal connected to a power supply, thereby rendering inverting transistors more desirable than noninverting transistors.In U.S. Patent No. 5,134,323 to J.S. Congdon, there is disclosed a noninverting transistor switch having only three terminals. In one embodiment, the three terminal noninverting transistor switch includes first, second and third terminals, a depletion mode field effect transistor (FET) having drain and source electrodes that define a current path in the transistor and are connected to the third and second terminals respectively and a gate electrode for controlling the current flow in the transistor current path. A negative voltage converter having an input electrode, an output electrode and a return electrode has its output electrode coupled to the gate electrode in the FET, its return electrode coupled to the source electrode and its input electrode coupled to the first terminal. In operation, the current flow between the drain and source electrodes will be high when a low signal is applied to the input electrode with respect to the source electrode and will be lower when a higher signal is applied to the input electrode with respect to the source electrode. In another embodiment, the noninverting switch having only three terminals includes first, second and third transistors, wherein the third transistor is coupled through circuitry 

to the first terminal of the noninverting transistor switch to provide a controlled amount of positive feedback which results in hysteresis or "Schmitt-trigger" like variation of the first terminal input threshold voltage.Three terminal inverting transistors typically
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An inverting hysteretic transistor switch having only three terminals, said three terminals being an input terminal, an output terminal and a ground terminal, an input voltage being applied to said input terminal, said input voltage having low-to- high input voltage transitions and high-to-low input voltage transitions, said inverting hysteretic transistor switch comprising: a. a transistor having a first terminal, a second terminal and a third terminal, the first terminal being connected to the output terminal and the second terminal being connected to the ground terminal, said transistor having an on switching state and an off switching state; b. a hysteresis circuit connected to the input terminal and to the third terminal of said transistor, said hysteresis circuit switching said transistor to its on switching state at a first threshold voltage during low-to-high input voltage transitions and said hysteresis circuit switching said transistor to its off switching state at a second threshold voltage during high-to-low input voltage transitions, the first threshold voltage being greater than the second threshold voltage.
2. An inverting hysteretic transistor switch having only three terminals, said three terminals being an input terminal, an output terminal and a ground terminal, said inverting hysteretic transistor switch comprising: a. a first field effect transistor (FET) having a drain terminal, a source terminal and a gate terminal, the source terminal of said first FET being connected to the ground terminal; b. a second field effect transistor (FET) having a drain terminal, a source terminal and a gate terminal, the source terminal of said second FET being connected to the ground terminal and the gate terminal of said second FET being connected to the drain terminal of said first FET; c. a third field effect transistor (FET) having a drain terminal, a source terminal and a gate terminal, the source terminal of said third FET being connected to the ground terminal, the drain terminal of said third FET being connected to the 


output terminal and the gate terminal of said third FET being connected to the gate terminal of said first FET; d. a first resistor having a first terminal and a second terminal, the first terminal of said first resistor being connected to the input terminal and the second terminal of said first resistor being connected to the drain terminal of said first FET; e. a second resistor having a first terminal and a second terminal, the first terminal of said second resistor being connected to the input terminal and the second terminal of said second resistor being connected to the gate terminal of said first FET; and f . a third resistor having a first terminal and a second terminal, the first terminal of said third resistor is connected to the gate terminal of said first FET and the second terminal of said third resistor is connected to the drain terminal of said second FET.
3. The inverting hysteretic transistor switch of claim 2 wherein each of said first, second and third field effect transistors are N-channel, enhancement-mode, metal-oxide semiconductor field effect transistors (MOSFETs).
4. The inverting hysteretic transistor switch of claim 3 wherein said first, second and third field effect transistors (FETs) have equal threshold voltages.
5. The inverting hysteretic transistor switch of claim 4 wherein said first, second and third resistors are approximately 120 Kohms.
6. The inverting hysteretic transistor switch of claim 5 further comprising a fourth resistor having a first terminal and a second terminal, the first terminal of said fourth resistor being connected to the gate terminal of said third FET and the second terminal of said fourth resistor being connected to ground. 7. An inverting hysteretic transistor switch having only three terminals, said three terminals being an input terminal, an output terminal and a ground terminal, said inverting hysteretic transistor switch comprising: a. a first transistor having a collector terminal, a base terminal and a emitter terminal connected the ground terminal; 


 b. a second transistor having a collector terminal, a base terminal connected to the collector terminal of said first bipolar transistor and an emitter terminal connected to ground; c. a third transistor having a collector terminal connected to the output terminal, a base terminal and an emitter terminal connected to ground; d. a first resistor having a first terminal connected to the input terminal and a second terminal connected to the collector terminal of said first transistor; e. a second resistor having a first terminal connected to the input terminal and a second terminal connected to the base terminal of said third transistor; and f. a third resistor having a first terminal connected to the base terminal of said third transistor and a second terminal connected to the collector terminal of said second transistor.
8. The inverting hysteretic transistor switch of claim 7 wherein third transistor is a Darlington-connected compound bipolar junction transistor.
9. The inverting hysteretic transistor switch of claim 8 further comprising a fourth resistor having a first terminal connected to the base of said third transistor and a second terminal connected to the base terminal of said first transistor.
10. The inverting hysteretic transistor switch of claim 9 further comprising a fifth resistor having a first terminal connected to the second terminal of said fourth resistor and a second terminal connected to the ground terminal.
11. An inverting hysteretic transistor switch having only three terminals, said three terminals being an input terminal, an output terminal and a ground terminal, an input voltage being applied to said input terminal, said input voltage having low-to- high input voltage transitions and high-to-low input voltage transitions, said inverting hysteretic transistor switch comprising: a. a field effect transistor (FET) having a drain terminal, a source terminal and a gate terminal, the drain terminal of said FET being connected to the output terminal, the source terminal of said first FET being connected to the ground terminal, a said transistor having an on switching state and an off switching state; and 


 b. an integrated circuit (IC) chip having an input voltage pin connected to the input terminal, a ground pin connected to the ground terminal and an output pin connected to the gate terminal of said FET; c. wherein said IC chip switches said transistor to its on switching state at a first threshold voltage during low-to-high input voltage transitions and said hysteresis circuit switches said transistor to its off switching state at a second threshold voltage during high-to-low input voltage transitions, the first threshold voltage being greater than the second threshold voltage.
12. The inverting hysteretic transistor switch of claim 11 further comprising a fourth resistor having a first terminal connected to the gate of said FET and a second terminal connected to ground.
13. An inverting hysteretic transistor switch having only three terminals, said three terminals being an input terminal, an output terminal and a ground terminal, said inverting hysteretic transistor switch comprising: a. a first field effect transistor (FET) having a drain terminal, a source terminal and a gate terminal; b. a second field effect transistor (FET) having a drain terminal, a source terminal and a gate terminal, the source terminal of said second FET being connected to the source terminal of said first FET; c. a third field effect transistor (FET) having a drain terminal, a source terminal and a gate terminal, the source terminal of said third FET being connected to the ground terminal, the drain terminal of said third FET being connected to the output terminal; d. a fourth field effect transistor (FET) having a drain terminal, a source terminal and a gate terminal, the source terminal of said fourth FET being connected to the ground terminal, the drain terminal of said fourth FET being connected to the gate terminal of said third FET, the gate terminal of said fourth FET being connected to the gate terminal of said first FET; e. a fifth field effect transistor (FET) having a drain terminal, a source terminal and a gate terminal, the source terminal of said fifth FET being connected 


to the input terminal, the drain terminal of said fifth FET being connected to the gate terminal of said third FET, the gate terminal of said fifth FET being connected to the drain terminal of said second FET; f. a first resistor having a first terminal and a second terminal, the first terminal of said first resistor being connected to the input terminal and the second terminal of said first resistor being connected to the gate terminal of said second FET; g. a second resistor having a first terminal and a second terminal, the first terminal of said second resistor being connected to the input terminal and the second terminal of said second resistor being connected to the gate terminal of said fifth FET; and h. a third resistor having a first terminal and a second terminal, the first terminal of said third resistor is connected to the gate terminal of said second FET and the second terminal of said third resistor is connected to the drain terminal of said first FET. 14. The inverting hysteretic transistor switch of claim 13 further comprising a fourth resistor having a first terminal and a second terminal, the first terminal of said fourth resistor being connected to the gate terminal of said third FET and the second terminal of said fourth resistor being connected to ground. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
