<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-2001000112</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VARIABLE THICKNESS STENT AND METHOD OF MANUFACTURE THEREOF
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F200	A61F200	A61F206	A61F206	A61F282	A61F284	A61F290	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention is directed to a stent having varying thickness, with the thickness selected based at least in part on the flexing characteristics of the particular portion of the stent. The stent is formed with a pattern having flexing and stable portions, with the flexing portions contributing to stent flexibility during stent positioning and deployment. One or more flexing portions are provided with a nominal thickness, and at least some stable portions are provided with a greater-than-nominal thickness. The resulting stent has excellent flexibility, strength, and radiopacity characteristics. The stent may be formed using various approaches, including using a tubular member, flat sheet, or wire.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIRIZZI MICHAEL S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PADILLA ORLANDO M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIRIZZI, MICHAEL, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PADILLA, ORLANDO, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 VARIABLE THICKNESS STENT AND METHOD OF MANUFACTURE THEREOFBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to devices for the treatment of heart disease and particularly to endo-arterial prostheses, which are commonly called stents. More particularly, the invention relates to stents having variable thickness.Several interventional treatment modalities are presently used for heart disease, including balloon and laser angioplasty, atherectomy, and by-pass surgery. In typical coronary balloon angioplasty procedures, a guiding catheter having a distal tip is percutaneously introduced through the femoral artery into the cardiovascular system of a patient using a conventional Seldinger technique and advanced within the cardiovascular system until the distal tip of the guiding catheter is seated in the ostium of a coronary artery. A guidewire is positioned within an inner lumen of a dilatation catheter and then both are advanced through the guiding catheter to the distal end thereof. The guidewire is first advanced out of the distal end of the guiding catheter into the patient's coronary vasculature until the distal end of the guidewire crosses a lesion to be dilated, then the dilatation catheter having an inflatable balloon on the distal portion thereof is advanced into the patient's coronary anatomy over the previously introduced guidewire until the balloon of the dilatation catheter is properly positioned across the lesion. Once in position across the lesion, the balloon is inflated to compress the plaque of the lesion against the inside of the artery wall and to otherwise expand the inner lumen of the artery. The balloon is then deflated so that blood flow can be resumed through the dilated artery and the dilatation catheter can be removed therefrom. Further details of dilatation catheters, guidewires, and devices associated therewith for angioplasty procedures can be found in U.S. Pat. No. 4,323,071 (Simpson- Robert); U.S. Pat. No. 4,439,185 (Lindquist); U.S. Pat. No. 4,516,972 (Samson); U.S. Pat. No. 4,538,622 (Samson, et al.); U.S. Pat. No. 4,554,929 (Samson, et al.); 

U.S. Pat. No. 4,616,652 (Simpson); U.S. Pat. No. 4,638,805 (Powell); U.S. Pat. No. 4,748,982 (Horzewski, et al.); U.S. Pat. No. 5,507,768 (Lau, et al.); U.S. Pat. No. 5,451,233 (Yock); and U.S. Pat. No. 5,458,651 (Klemm, et al.), which are hereby incorporated herein in their entirety by reference thereto. One problem that can occur during balloon angioplasty procedures is the formation of intimal flaps which can collapse and occlude
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method of manufacturing a stent with variable thickness, comprising the steps of: providing a generally tubular section with a desired thickness; varying the thickness of selected portions of the tubular section; and removing material from the tubular section to form a desired stent pattern.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of removing material includes the step of laser cutting the desired pattern in the tubular section.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of varying the thickness of selected portions of the tubular member includes the steps of: mounting the tubular member on a rotating mechanism; rotating the tubular member; pressing a machining tool against a portion of the tubular member until the thickness of the tubular member portion is reduced to a nominal thickness.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the tubular section has an inner surface, and wherein the step of pressing the machining tool against the tubular member includes pressing the machining tool against the inner surface of the tubular member.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the tubular section has an outer surface, and wherein the step of pressing the machining tool against the tubular member includes pressing the machining tool against the outer surface of the tubular member. 

6. A method of manufacturing a stent with variable thickness, comprising the steps of: providing a generally planar section with a desired thickness, the generally planar section having a first surface and a second surface; varying the thickness of one or more selected portions of the generally planar section; removing material from the generally planar section to form a desired stent pattern; and rolling the generally planar section into a tubular shape such that the first surface forms an inner surface of the tubular shape and the second surface forms an outer surface of the tubular shape.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the step of rolling the generally planar section into a tubular shape occurs after the step of removing material from the generally planar section to form the desired stent pattern.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the step of removing material to form the desired stent pattern includes the step of laser cutting the desired stent pattern in the generally planar section.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein the step of varying the thickness of selected portions of the generally planar member occurs after the generally planar member has been rolled into a tubular shape, and wherein the step of varying the thickness includes the steps of: mounting the tubular shape on a rotating mechanism; rotating the tubular shape; pressing a machining tool against a portion of the tubular shape until the thickness of the tubular shape portion is reduced to a nominal thickness. 

10. The method of claim 9, wherein the step of pressing the machining tool against the tubular shape includes pressing the machining tool against the first surface of the tubular shape.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the step of pressing the machining tool against the tubular shape includes pressing the machining tool against the second surface of the tubular shape.
12. A method of manufacturing a stent with variable thickness, comprising the steps of: selecting a stent pattern; determining flexing portions and stable portions of the stent pattern; forming a stent with the desired stent pattern, including the steps of: providing one or more flexing portions of the stent pattern with a nominal thickness; and providing one or more stable portions of the stent pattern with a greater-than-nominal thickness.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the step of providing flexing portions of the stent pattern with a nominal thickness includes the step of reducing the thickness of the flexing portions of the stent from a greater-than-nominal thickness to a nominal thickness.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the step of reducing the thickness of the flexing portions of the stent from a greater-than-nominal thickness to a nominal thickness includes the step of removing a surface layer of material from the outer surface of the stent. 

15. The method of claim 13, wherein the step of reducing the thickness of the flexing portions of the stent from a greater-than-nominal thickness to a nominal thickness includes the step of removing a surface layer of material from the inner surface of the stent.
16. The method of claim 12, wherein the stent is formed from a desired material, and the step of providing one or more stable portions of the stent pattern with a greater-than-nominal thickness includes the step of increasing the thickness of one or more stable portions of the stent from a nominal thickness to a greater- than-nominal thickness by adding additional amounts of the desired material to the outer surface of the stent.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the step of increasing the thickness of one or more stable portions of the stent includes sputter-coating additional amounts of the select material onto the outer surface of the stent.
18. The method of claim 12, wherein the step of forming the stent with the desired stent pattern includes the step of forming a wire into the desired stent pattern.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the step of forming the wire into the desired stent pattern includes the step of forming the wire with variable thickness.
20. The method of claim 12, wherein the step of forming a stent with the desired stent pattern includes the steps of: providing a rough stent form; and cutting the desired stent pattern into the rough stent form. 

21. The method of claim 20, wherein the step of reducing the thickness of one or more flexing portions of the stent from a greater than nominal thickness to a nominal thickness includes the step of removing a surface layer of material from the outer surface of the stent.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the step of removing a surface layer of material from the outer surface of the stent is performed prior to the step of cutting the desired stent pattern into the tubular member.
23. A stent for deployment in a body lumen, the stent comprising: a generally tubular member having a desired stent pattern, the desired stent pattern comprising: one or more flexing portions, wherein at least some of the flexing portions have a nominal thickness, and one or more stable portions, wherein at least some of the stable portions have a greater-than-nominal thickness.
24. The stent of claim 23, wherein the nominal thickness is 10% or less of the greater-than-nominal thickness.
25. The stent of claim 23, wherein the nominal thickness is 50% or less of the greater-than-nominal thickness.
26. The stent of claim 23, wherein the nominal thickness is 80% or less of the greater-than-nominal thickness.
27. The stent of claim 23, wherein the flexing portions and stable portions are formed from the same material. 

28. The stent of claim 23, wherein the stent has a relatively uneven outer surface.
29. The stent of claim 23, wherein the stent has a relatively uneven inner surface.
30. The stent of claim 29, wherein the stent has a relatively uneven outer surface.
31. A method of securing a stent to a balloon, comprising the steps of: providing a stent with projections on an inner surface thereof; positioning the stent onto an outer surface of the balloon; crimping the stent onto the balloon, whereby the projections on the stent inner surface engage the outer surface of the balloon.
32. The method of claim 31, including, prior to the step of crimping the stent onto the balloon, the further step of: providing outer projections on an outer surface of the stent, said outer projections and stent configured so that inward pressure against the outer projections will deform an inner surface of the stent in such a way as to increase the inner projections on said the stent inner surface.
33. A method of securing a stent to a balloon, comprising the steps of: providing a stent with outer projections on an outer surface thereof, said outer projections and stent configured so that inward pressure against the outer projections will deform an inner surface of the stent in such a way as to create inner projections on said the stent inner surface; positioning the stent onto an outer surface of the balloon; 


 crimping the stent onto the balloon, wherein the step of crimping includes the step applying inward pressure against the outer surface projections, thereby creating inner projections on the inner surface of the stent that engage the outer surface of the balloon.
34. A stent for deployment in a body lumen, the stent comprising: a generally tubular member having a desired stent pattern, said desired stent pattern comprising: one or more deforming portions that will deform when the stent is expanded from a delivery condition to a deployed condition, wherein at least some of the deforming portions have a nominal thickness, and one or more non-deforming portions that will not substantially deform when the stent is expanded from a delivery condition to a deployed condition, wherein at least some of the non-deforming portions have a greater-than-nominal thickness. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
